He took a large sheet of paper from his pocket, all covered with
dates and names.

"I have spent the whole day," said he, "over Lloyd's registers
and files of the old papers, following the future career of every
vessel which touched at Pondicherry in January and February in '83.
There were thirty-six ships of fair tonnage which were reported
there during those months. Of these, one, the 'Lone Star,'
instantly attracted my attention, since, although it was reported
as having cleared from London, the name is that which is given to
one of the states of the Union."

"Texas, I think."

"I was not and am not sure which; but I knew that the ship must
have an American origin."

"What then?"

"I searched the Dundee records, and when I found that the barque
'Lone Star' was there in January, '85, my suspicion became a
certainty. I then inquired as to the vessels which lay at present
in the port of London."

"Yes?"

"The 'Lone Star' had arrived here last week. I went down to the
Albert Dock and found that she had been taken down the river by the
early tide this morning, homeward bound to Savannah. I wired to
Gravesend and learned that she had passed some time ago, and as the
wind is easterly I have no doubt that she is now past the Goodwins
and not very far from the Isle of Wight."

"What will you do, then?"

"Oh, I have my hand upon him. He and the two mates, are as I
learn, the only native-born Americans in the ship. The others are
Finns and Germans. I know, also, that they were all three away from
the ship last night. I had it from the stevedore who has been
loading their cargo. By the time that their sailing-ship reaches
Savannah the mail-boat will have carried this letter, and the cable
will have informed the police of Savannah that these three
gentlemen are badly wanted here upon a charge of murder."

There is ever a flaw, however, in the best laid of human plans,
and the murderers of John Openshaw were never to receive the orange
pips which would show them that another, as cunning and as resolute
as themselves, was upon their track. Very long and very severe were
the equinoctial gales that year. We waited long for news of the
"Lone Star" of Savannah, but none ever reached us. We did at last
hear that somewhere far out in the Atlantic a shattered stern-post
of a boat was seen swinging in the trough of a wave, with the
letters "L. S." carved upon it, and that is all which we shall ever
know of the fate of the "Lone Star."
