"We have retained these things for some days," said Holmes,
"because we expected to see an advertisement from you giving your
address. I am at a loss to know now why you did not advertise."

Our visitor gave a rather shamefaced laugh. "Shillings have not
been so plentiful with me as they once were," he remarked. "I had
no doubt that the gang of roughs who assaulted me had carried off
both my hat and the bird. I did not care to spend more money in a
hopeless attempt at recovering them."

"Very naturally. By the way, about the bird, we were compelled
to eat it."

"To eat it!" Our visitor half rose from his chair in his
excitement.

"Yes, it would have been of no use to anyone had we not done so.
But I presume that this other goose upon the sideboard, which is
about the same weight and perfectly fresh, will answer your purpose
equally well?"

"Oh, certainly, certainly," answered Mr. Baker with a sigh of
relief.

"Of course, we still have the feathers, legs, crop, and so on of
your own bird, so if you wish—"

The man burst into a hearty laugh. "They might be useful to me
as relics of my adventure," said he, "but beyond that I can hardly
see what use the disjecta membra of my late acquaintance are going
to be to me. No, sir, I think that, with your permission, I will
confine my attentions to the excellent bird which I perceive upon
the sideboard."

Sherlock Holmes glanced sharply across at me with a slight shrug
of his shoulders.

"There is your hat, then, and there your bird," said he. "By the
way, would it bore you to tell me where you got the other one from?
I am somewhat of a fowl fancier, and I have seldom seen a better
grown goose."

"Certainly, sir," said Baker, who had risen and tucked his newly
gained property under his arm. "There are a few of us who frequent
the Alpha Inn, near the Museum—we are to be found in the Museum
itself during the day, you understand. This year our good host,
Windigate by name, instituted a goose club, by which, on
consideration of some few pence every week, we were each to receive
a bird at Christmas. My pence were duly paid, and the rest is
familiar to you. I am much indebted to you, sir, for a Scotch
bonnet is fitted neither to my years nor my gravity." With a
comical pomposity of manner he bowed solemnly to both of us and
strode off upon his way.
