"You then roused his anger by calling him names at a moment when
he felt that he had deserved your warmest thanks. He could not
explain the true state of affairs without betraying one who
certainly deserved little enough consideration at his hands. He
took the more chivalrous view, however, and preserved her
secret."

"And that was why she shrieked and fainted when she saw the
coronet," cried Mr. Holder. "Oh, my God! what a blind fool I have
been! And his asking to be allowed to go out for five minutes! The
dear fellow wanted to see if the missing piece were at the scene of
the struggle. How cruelly I have misjudged him!"

"When I arrived at the house," continued Holmes, "I at once went
very carefully round it to observe if there were any traces in the
snow which might help me. I knew that none had fallen since the
evening before, and also that there had been a strong frost to
preserve impressions. I passed along the tradesmen's path, but
found it all trampled down and indistinguishable. Just beyond it,
however, at the far side of the kitchen door, a woman had stood and
talked with a man, whose round impressions on one side showed that
he had a wooden leg. I could even tell that they had been
disturbed, for the woman had run back swiftly to the door, as was
shown by the deep toe and light heel marks, while Wooden-leg had
waited a little, and then had gone away. I thought at the time that
this might be the maid and her sweetheart, of whom you had already
spoken to me, and inquiry showed it was so. I passed round the
garden without seeing anything more than random tracks, which I
took to be the police; but when I got into the stable lane a very
long and complex story was written in the snow in front of me.

"There was a double line of tracks of a booted man, and a second
double line which I saw with delight belonged to a man with naked
feet. I was at once convinced from what you had told me that the
latter was your son. The first had walked both ways, but the other
had run swiftly, and as his tread was marked in places over the
depression of the boot, it was obvious that he had passed after the
other. I followed them up and found they led to the hall window,
where Boots had worn all the snow away while waiting. Then I walked
to the other end, which was a hundred yards or more down the lane.
I saw where Boots had faced round, where the snow was cut up as
though there had been a struggle, and, finally, where a few drops
of blood had fallen, to show me that I was not mistaken. Boots had
then run down the lane, and another little smudge of blood showed
that it was he who had been hurt. When he came to the highroad at
the other end, I found that the pavement had been cleared, so there
was an end to that clue.

"On entering the house, however, I examined, as you remember,
the sill and framework of the hall window with my lens, and I could
at once see that someone had passed out. I could distinguish the
outline of an instep where the wet foot had been placed in coming
in. I was then beginning to be able to form an opinion as to what
had occurred. A man had waited outside the window; someone had
brought the gems; the deed had been overseen by your son; he had
pursued the thief; had struggled with him; they had each tugged at
the coronet, their united strength causing injuries which neither
alone could have effected. He had returned with the prize, but had
left a fragment in the grasp of his opponent. So far I was clear.
The question now was, who was the man and who was it brought him
the coronet?

"It is an old maxim of mine that when you have excluded the
impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the
truth. Now, I knew that it was not you who had brought it down, so
there only remained your niece and the maids. But if it were the
maids, why should your son allow himself to be accused in their
place? There could be no possible reason. As he loved his cousin,
however, there was an excellent explanation why he should retain
her secret—the more so as the secret was a disgraceful one. When I
remembered that you had seen her at that window, and how she had
fainted on seeing the coronet again, my conjecture became a
certainty.

"And who could it be who was her confederate? A lover evidently,
for who else could outweigh the love and gratitude which she must
feel to you? I knew that you went out little, and that your circle
of friends was a very limited one. But among them was Sir George
Burnwell. I had heard of him before as being a man of evil
reputation among women. It must have been he who wore those boots
and retained the missing gems. Even though he knew that Arthur had
discovered him, he might still flatter himself that he was safe,
for the lad could not say a word without compromising his own
family.

"Well, your own good sense will suggest what measures I took
next. I went in the shape of a loafer to Sir George's house,
managed to pick up an acquaintance with his valet, learned that his
master had cut his head the night before, and, finally, at the
expense of six shillings, made all sure by buying a pair of his
cast-off shoes. With these I journeyed down to Streatham and saw
that they exactly fitted the tracks."

"I saw an ill-dressed vagabond in the lane yesterday evening,"
said Mr. Holder.

"Precisely. It was I. I found that I had my man, so I came home
and changed my clothes. It was a delicate part which I had to play
then, for I saw that a prosecution must be avoided to avert
scandal, and I knew that so astute a villain would see that our
hands were tied in the matter. I went and saw him. At first, of
course, he denied everything. But when I gave him every particular
that had occurred, he tried to bluster and took down a
life-preserver from the wall. I knew my man, however, and I clapped
a pistol to his head before he could strike. Then he became a
little more reasonable. I told him that we would give him a price
for the stones he held—1000 pounds apiece. That brought out the
first signs of grief that he had shown. 'Why, dash it all!' said
he, 'I've let them go at six hundred for the three!' I soon managed
to get the address of the receiver who had them, on promising him
that there would be no prosecution. Off I set to him, and after
much chaffering I got our stones at 1000 pounds apiece. Then I
looked in upon your son, told him that all was right, and
eventually got to my bed about two o'clock, after what I may call a
really hard day's work."

"A day which has saved England from a great public scandal,"
said the banker, rising. "Sir, I cannot find words to thank you,
but you shall not find me ungrateful for what you have done. Your
skill has indeed exceeded all that I have heard of it. And now I
must fly to my dear boy to apologise to him for the wrong which I
have done him. As to what you tell me of poor Mary, it goes to my
very heart. Not even your skill can inform me where she is
now."
