


Chapter

13

&#160;


He passed out of the room and began the ascent, Basil Hallward
following close behind. They walked softly, as men do instinctively
at night. The lamp cast fantastic shadows on the wall and
staircase. A rising wind made some of the windows rattle.

When they reached the top landing, Dorian set the lamp down on
the floor, and taking out the key, turned it in the lock. "You
insist on knowing, Basil?" he asked in a low voice.

"Yes."

"I am delighted," he answered, smiling. Then he added, somewhat
harshly, "You are the one man in the world who is entitled to know
everything about me. You have had more to do with my life than you
think"; and, taking up the lamp, he opened the door and went in. A
cold current of air passed them, and the light shot up for a moment
in a flame of murky orange. He shuddered. "Shut the door behind
you," he whispered, as he placed the lamp on the table.

Hallward glanced round him with a puzzled expression. The room
looked as if it had not been lived in for years. A faded Flemish
tapestry, a curtained picture, an old Italian cassone, and an
almost empty book-caseâ€”that was all that it seemed to contain,
besides a chair and a table. As Dorian Gray was lighting a
half-burned candle that was standing on the mantelshelf, he saw
that the whole place was covered with dust and that the carpet was
in holes. A mouse ran scuffling behind the wainscoting. There was a
damp odour of mildew.

"So you think that it is only God who sees the soul, Basil? Draw
that curtain back, and you will see mine."

