"Her name is Sibyl Vane."

"Never heard of her."

"No one has. People will some day, however. She is a
genius."

"My dear boy, no woman is a genius. Women are a decorative sex.
They never have anything to say, but they say it charmingly. Women
represent the triumph of matter over mind, just as men represent
the triumph of mind over morals."

"Harry, how can you?"

"My dear Dorian, it is quite true. I am analysing women at
present, so I ought to know. The subject is not so abstruse as I
thought it was. I find that, ultimately, there are only two kinds
of women, the plain and the coloured. The plain women are very
useful. If you want to gain a reputation for respectability, you
have merely to take them down to supper. The other women are very
charming. They commit one mistake, however. They paint in order to
try and look young. Our grandmothers painted in order to try and
talk brilliantly. Rouge and esprit used to go together. That is all
over now. As long as a woman can look ten years younger than her
own daughter, she is perfectly satisfied. As for conversation,
there are only five women in London worth talking to, and two of
these can't be admitted into decent society. However, tell me about
your genius. How long have you known her?"

"Ah! Harry, your views terrify me."

"Never mind that. How long have you known her?"

"About three weeks."

"And where did you come across her?"

"I will tell you, Harry, but you mustn't be unsympathetic about
it. After all, it never would have happened if I had not met you.
You filled me with a wild desire to know everything about life. For
days after I met you, something seemed to throb in my veins. As I
lounged in the park, or strolled down Piccadilly, I used to look at
every one who passed me and wonder, with a mad curiosity, what sort
of lives they led. Some of them fascinated me. Others filled me
with terror. There was an exquisite poison in the air. I had a
passion for sensations… . Well, one evening about seven o'clock, I
determined to go out in search of some adventure. I felt that this
grey monstrous London of ours, with its myriads of people, its
sordid sinners, and its splendid sins, as you once phrased it, must
have something in store for me. I fancied a thousand things. The
mere danger gave me a sense of delight. I remembered what you had
said to me on that wonderful evening when we first dined together,
about the search for beauty being the real secret of life. I don't
know what I expected, but I went out and wandered eastward, soon
losing my way in a labyrinth of grimy streets and black grassless
squares. About half-past eight I passed by an absurd little
theatre, with great flaring gas-jets and gaudy play-bills. A
hideous Jew, in the most amazing waistcoat I ever beheld in my
life, was standing at the entrance, smoking a vile cigar. He had
greasy ringlets, and an enormous diamond blazed in the centre of a
soiled shirt. 'Have a box, my Lord?' he said, when he saw me, and
he took off his hat with an air of gorgeous servility. There was
something about him, Harry, that amused me. He was such a monster.
You will laugh at me, I know, but I really went in and paid a whole
guinea for the stage-box. To the present day I can't make out why I
did so; and yet if I hadn't— my dear Harry, if I hadn't—I should
have missed the greatest romance of my life. I see you are
laughing. It is horrid of you!"
