"Mother, I have something to ask you," he said. Her eyes
wandered vaguely about the room. She made no answer. "Tell me the
truth. I have a right to know. Were you married to my father?"

She heaved a deep sigh. It was a sigh of relief. The terrible
moment, the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she
had dreaded, had come at last, and yet she felt no terror. Indeed,
in some measure it was a disappointment to her. The vulgar
directness of the question called for a direct answer. The
situation had not been gradually led up to. It was crude. It
reminded her of a bad rehearsal.

"No," she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of
life.

"My father was a scoundrel then!" cried the lad, clenching his
fists.

She shook her head. "I knew he was not free. We loved each other
very much. If he had lived, he would have made provision for us.
Don't speak against him, my son. He was your father, and a
gentleman. Indeed, he was highly connected."

An oath broke from his lips. "I don't care for myself," he
exclaimed, "but don't let Sibylâ€¦ . It is a gentleman, isn't it, who
is in love with her, or says he is? Highly connected, too, I
suppose."

For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman.
Her head drooped. She wiped her eyes with shaking hands. "Sibyl has
a mother," she murmured; "I had none."

The lad was touched. He went towards her, and stooping down, he
kissed her. "I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my
father," he said, "but I could not help it. I must go now.
Good-bye. Don't forget that you will have only one child now to
look after, and believe me that if this man wrongs my sister, I
will find out who he is, track him down, and kill him like a dog. I
swear it."

The exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that
accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more
vivid to her. She was familiar with the atmosphere. She breathed
more freely, and for the first time for many months she really
admired her son. She would have liked to have continued the scene
on the same emotional scale, but he cut her short. Trunks had to be
carried down and mufflers looked for. The lodging-house drudge
bustled in and out. There was the bargaining with the cabman. The
moment was lost in vulgar details. It was with a renewed feeling of
disappointment that she waved the tattered lace handkerchief from
the window, as her son drove away. She was conscious that a great
opportunity had been wasted. She consoled herself by telling Sibyl
how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one
child to look after. She remembered the phrase. It had pleased her.
Of the threat she said nothing. It was vividly and dramatically
expressed. She felt that they would all laugh at it some day.




