"I am all expectation, Basil," continued his companion, glancing
at him.

"Oh, there is really very little to tell, Harry," answered the
painter; "and I am afraid you will hardly understand it. Perhaps
you will hardly believe it."

Lord Henry smiled, and leaning down, plucked a pink-petalled
daisy from the grass and examined it. "I am quite sure I shall
understand it," he replied, gazing intently at the little golden,
white-feathered disk, "and as for believing things, I can believe
anything, provided that it is quite incredible."

The wind shook some blossoms from the trees, and the heavy
lilac-blooms, with their clustering stars, moved to and fro in the
languid air. A grasshopper began to chirrup by the wall, and like a
blue thread a long thin dragon-fly floated past on its brown gauze
wings. Lord Henry felt as if he could hear Basil Hallward's heart
beating, and wondered what was coming.

"The story is simply this," said the painter after some time.
"Two months ago I went to a crush at Lady Brandon's. You know we
poor artists have to show ourselves in society from time to time,
just to remind the public that we are not savages. With an evening
coat and a white tie, as you told me once, anybody, even a
stock-broker, can gain a reputation for being civilized. Well,
after I had been in the room about ten minutes, talking to huge
overdressed dowagers and tedious academicians, I suddenly became
conscious that some one was looking at me. I turned half-way round
and saw Dorian Gray for the first time. When our eyes met, I felt
that I was growing pale. A curious sensation of terror came over
me. I knew that I had come face to face with some one whose mere
personality was so fascinating that, if I allowed it to do so, it
would absorb my whole nature, my whole soul, my very art itself. I
did not want any external influence in my life. You know yourself,
Harry, how independent I am by nature. I have always been my own
master; had at least always been so, till I met Dorian Gray.
Then—but I don't know how to explain it to you. Something seemed to
tell me that I was on the verge of a terrible crisis in my life. I
had a strange feeling that fate had in store for me exquisite joys
and exquisite sorrows. I grew afraid and turned to quit the room.
It was not conscience that made me do so: it was a sort of
cowardice. I take no credit to myself for trying to escape."

"Conscience and cowardice are really the same things, Basil.
Conscience is the trade-name of the firm. That is all."

"I don't believe that, Harry, and I don't believe you do either.
However, whatever was my motive—and it may have been pride, for I
used to be very proud—I certainly struggled to the door. There, of
course, I stumbled against Lady Brandon. 'You are not going to run
away so soon, Mr. Hallward?' she screamed out. You know her
curiously shrill voice?"

"Yes; she is a peacock in everything but beauty," said Lord
Henry, pulling the daisy to bits with his long nervous fingers.

"I could not get rid of her. She brought me up to royalties, and
people with stars and garters, and elderly ladies with gigantic
tiaras and parrot noses. She spoke of me as her dearest friend. I
had only met her once before, but she took it into her head to
lionize me. I believe some picture of mine had made a great success
at the time, at least had been chattered about in the penny
newspapers, which is the nineteenth-century standard of
immortality. Suddenly I found myself face to face with the young
man whose personality had so strangely stirred me. We were quite
close, almost touching. Our eyes met again. It was reckless of me,
but I asked Lady Brandon to introduce me to him. Perhaps it was not
so reckless, after all. It was simply inevitable. We would have
spoken to each other without any introduction. I am sure of that.
Dorian told me so afterwards. He, too, felt that we were destined
to know each other."

"And how did Lady Brandon describe this wonderful young man?"
asked his companion. "I know she goes in for giving a rapid precis
of all her guests. I remember her bringing me up to a truculent and
red-faced old gentleman covered all over with orders and ribbons,
and hissing into my ear, in a tragic whisper which must have been
perfectly audible to everybody in the room, the most astounding
details. I simply fled. I like to find out people for myself. But
Lady Brandon treats her guests exactly as an auctioneer treats his
goods. She either explains them entirely away, or tells one
everything about them except what one wants to know."

"Poor Lady Brandon! You are hard on her, Harry!" said Hallward
listlessly.
