


Chapter

8

&#160;


It was long past noon when he awoke. His valet had crept several
times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had
wondered what made his young master sleep so late. Finally his bell
sounded, and Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of
letters, on a small tray of old Sevres china, and drew back the
olive-satin curtains, with their shimmering blue lining, that hung
in front of the three tall windows.

"Monsieur has well slept this morning," he said, smiling.

"What o'clock is it, Victor?" asked Dorian Gray drowsily.

"One hour and a quarter, Monsieur."

How late it was! He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned
over his letters. One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been
brought by hand that morning. He hesitated for a moment, and then
put it aside. The others he opened listlessly. They contained the
usual collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for
private views, programmes of charity concerts, and the like that
are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the
season. There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver
Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send
on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and
did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are
our only necessities; and there were several very courteously
worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to
advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most
reasonable rates of interest.

After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate
dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the
onyx-paved bathroom. The cool water refreshed him after his long
sleep. He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through. A
dim sense of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him
once or twice, but there was the unreality of a dream about it.

