The intellectual slumber of the Middle Ages was destined to be
awakened by the revolutionary doctrines of Copernicus. It may be
noted, as an interesting circumstance, that the time at which he
discovered the scheme of the solar system has coincided with a
remarkable epoch in the world's history. The great astronomer had
just reached manhood at the time when Columbus discovered the new
world.

Before the publication of the researches of Copernicus, the
orthodox scientific creed averred that the earth was stationary,
and that the apparent movements of the heavenly bodies were indeed
real movements. Ptolemy had laid down this doctrine 1,400 years
before. In his theory this huge error was associated with so much
important truth, and the whole presented such a coherent scheme for
the explanation of the heavenly movements, that the Ptolemaic
theory was not seriously questioned until the great work of
Copernicus appeared. No doubt others, before Copernicus, had from
time to time in some vague fashion surmised, with more or less
plausibility, that the sun, and not the earth, was the centre about
which the system really revolved. It is, however, one thing to
state a scientific fact; it is quite another thing to be in
possession of the train of reasoning, founded on observation or
experiment, by which that fact may be established. Pythagoras, it
appears, had indeed told his disciples that it was the sun, and not
the earth, which was the centre of movement, but it does not seem
at all certain that Pythagoras had any grounds which science could
recognise for the belief which is attributed to him. So far as
information is available to us, it would seem that Pythagoras
associated his scheme of things celestial with a number of
preposterous notions in natural philosophy. He may certainly have
made a correct statement as to which was the most important body in
the solar system, but he certainly did not provide any rational
demonstration of the fact. Copernicus, by a strict train of
reasoning, convinced those who would listen to him that the sun was
the centre of the system. It is useful for us to consider the
arguments which he urged, and by which he effected that
intellectual revolution which is always connected with his
name.

The first of the great discoveries which Copernicus made relates
to the rotation of the earth on its axis. That general diurnal
movement, by which the stars and all other celestial bodies appear
to be carried completely round the heavens once every twenty-four
hours, had been accounted for by Ptolemy on the supposition that
the apparent movements were the real movements. As we have already
seen, Ptolemy himself felt the extraordinary difficulty involved in
the supposition that so stupendous a fabric as the celestial sphere
should spin in the way supposed. Such movements required that many
of the stars should travel with almost inconceivable velocity.
Copernicus also saw that the daily rising and setting of the
heavenly bodies could be accounted for either by the supposition
that the celestial sphere moved round and that the earth remained
at rest, or by the supposition that the celestial sphere was at
rest while the earth turned round in the opposite direction. He
weighed the arguments on both sides as Ptolemy had done, and, as
the result of his deliberations, Copernicus came to an opposite
conclusion from Ptolemy. To Copernicus it appeared that the
difficulties attending the supposition that the celestial sphere
revolved, were vastly greater than those which appeared so weighty
to Ptolemy as to force him to deny the earth's rotation.

Copernicus shows clearly how tne observed phenomena could be
accounted for just as completely by a rotation of the earth as by a
rotation of the heavens. He alludes to the fact that, to those on
board a vessel which is moving through smooth water, the vessel
itself appears to be at rest, while the objects on shore seem to be
moving past.

If, therefore, the earth were rotating uniformly, we dwellers
upon the earth, oblivious of our own movement, would wrongly
attribute to the stars the displacement which was actually the
consequence of our own motion. Copernicus saw the futility of the
arguments by which Ptolemy had endeavoured to demonstrate that a
revolution of the earth was impossible. It was plain to him that
there was nothing whatever to warrant refusal to believe in the
rotation of the earth. In his clear-sightedness on this matter we
have specially to admire the sagacity of Copernicus as a natural
philosopher. It had been urged that, if the earth moved round, its
motion would not be imparted to the air, and that therefore the
earth would be uninhabitable by the terrific winds which would be
the result of our being carried through the air. Copernicus
convinced himself that this deduction was preposterous. He proved
that the air must accompany the earth, just as his coat remains
round him, notwithstanding the fact that he is walking down the
street. In this way he was able to show that all a priori
objections to the earth's movements were absurd, and therefore he
was able to compare together the plausibilities of the two rival
schemes for explaining the diurnal movement.

Once the issue had been placed in this form, the result could
not be long in doubt. Here is the question : Which is it more
likely—that the earth, like a grain of sand at the centre of a
mighty globe, should turn round once in twenty-four hours, or—that
the whole of that vast globe should complete a rotation in the
opposite direction in the same time&#160;? Obviously, the former is
far the more simple supposition. But the case is really much
stronger than this. Ptolemy had supposed that all the stars were
attached to the surface of a sphere. He had no ground whatever for
this supposition, except that otherwise it would have been
well-nigh impossible to have devised a scheme by which the rotation
of the heavens around a fixed earth could have been arranged.
Copernicus, however, with the just instinct of a philosopher,
considered that the celestial sphere, however convenient from a
geometrical point of view, as a means of representing apparent
phenomena, could not actually have a material existence. In the
first place, the existence of a material celestial sphere would
require that all the myriad stars should be at exactly the same
distances from the earth. Of course, no one will say that this or
any other arbitrary disposition of the stars is actually
impossible, but as there was no conceivable physical reason why the
distances of all the stars from the earth should be identical, it
seemed in the very highest degree improbable that the stars should
be so placed.

Doubtless, also, Copernicus felt a considerable difficulty as to
the nature of the materials from which Ptolemy's wonderful sphere
was to be constructed. Nor could a philosopher of his penetration
have failed to observe that, unless that sphere were infinitely
large, there must have been space outside it, a consideration which
would open up other difficult questions. Whether infinite or not,
it was obvious that the celestial sphere must have a diameter at
least many thousands of times as great as that of the earth. From
these considerations Copernicus deduced the important fact that the
stars and the other celestial bodies must all be vast objects. He
was thus enabled to put the question in such a form that it could
hardly receive any answer but the correct one. Which is it more
rational to suppose, that the earth should turn round on its axis
once in twenty-four hours, or that thousands of mighty stars should
circle round the earth in the same time, many of them having to
describe circles many thousands of times greater in circumference
than the circuit of the earth at the equator&#160;? The obvious
answer pressed upon Copernicus with so much force that he was
compelled to reject Ptolemy's theory of the stationary earth, and
to attribute the diurnal rotation of the heavens to the revolution
of the earth on its axis.

Once this tremendous step had been taken, the great difficulties
which beset the monstrous conception of the celestial sphere
vanished, for the stars need no longer be regarded as situated at
equal distances from the earth. Copernicus saw that they might lie
at the most varied degrees of remoteness, some being hundreds or
thousands of times farther away than others. The complicated
structure of the celestial sphere as a material object disappeared
altogether; it remained only as a geometrical conception, whereon
we find it convenient to indicate the places of the stars. Once the
Copernican doctrine had been fully set forth, it was impossible for
anyone, who had both the inclination and the capacity to understand
it, to withhold acceptance of its truth. The doctrine of a
stationary earth had gone for ever.

&#160;




