
"Sure enough, they left their glim here," said the fellow from
the window.

"Scatter and find 'em! Rout the house out!" reiterated Pew,
striking with his stick upon the road.

Then there followed a great to-do through all our old inn, heavy
feet pounding to and fro, furniture thrown over, doors kicked in,
until the very rocks re-echoed and the men came out again, one
after another, on the road and declared that we were nowhere to be
found. And just the same whistle that had alarmed my mother and
myself over the dead captain's money was once more clearly audible
through the night, but this time twice repeated. I had thought it
to be the blind man's trumpet, so to speak, summoning his crew to
the assault, but I now found that it was a signal from the hillside
towards the hamlet, and from its effect upon the buccaneers, a
signal to warn them of approaching danger.

"There's Dirk again," said one. "Twice! We'll have to budge,
mates."

"Budge, you skulk!" cried Pew. "Dirk was a fool and a coward
from the first—you wouldn't mind him. They must be close by; they
can't be far; you have your hands on it. Scatter and look for them,
dogs! Oh, shiver my soul," he cried, "if I had eyes!" This appeal
seemed to produce some effect, for two of the fellows began to look
here and there among the lumber, but half-heartedly, I thought, and
with half an eye to their own danger all the time, while the rest
stood irresolute on the road. "You have your hands on thousands,
you fools, and you hang a leg! You'd be as rich as kings if you
could find it, and you know it's here, and you stand there
skulking. There wasn't one of you dared face Bill, and I did it—a
blind man! And I'm to lose my chance for you! I'm to be a poor,
crawling beggar, sponging for rum, when I might be rolling in a
coach! If you had the pluck of a weevil in a biscuit you would
catch them still."

"Hang it, Pew, we've got the doubloons!" grumbled one.

"They might have hid the blessed thing," said another. "Take the
Georges, Pew, and don't stand here squalling."

Squalling was the word for it; Pew's anger rose so high at these
objections till at last, his passion completely taking the upper
hand, he struck at them right and left in his blindness and his
stick sounded heavily on more than one.

These, in their turn, cursed back at the blind miscreant,
threatened him in horrid terms, and tried in vain to catch the
stick and wrest it from his grasp.

This quarrel was the saving of us, for while it was still
raging, another sound came from the top of the hill on the side of
the hamlet—the tramp of horses galloping. Almost at the same time a
pistol-shot, flash and report, came from the hedge side. And that
was plainly the last signal of danger, for the buccaneers turned at
once and ran, separating in every direction, one seaward along the
cove, one slant across the hill, and so on, so that in half a
minute not a sign of them remained but Pew. Him they had deserted,
whether in sheer panic or out of revenge for his ill words and
blows I know not; but there he remained behind, tapping up and down
the road in a frenzy, and groping and calling for his comrades.
Finally he took a wrong turn and ran a few steps past me, towards
the hamlet, crying, "Johnny, Black Dog, Dirk," and other names,
"you won't leave old Pew, mates—not old Pew!"

