


Chapter

2

&#160;


Jane Fairfax was an orphan, the only child of Mrs. Bates's
youngest daughter.

The marriage of Lieut. Fairfax of the ______________ regiment of
infantry, and Miss Jane Bates, had had its day of fame and
pleasure, hope and interest; but nothing now remained of it, save
the melancholy remembrance of him dying in action abroad—of his
widow sinking under consumption and grief soon afterwards—and this
girl.

By birth she belonged to Highbury: and when at three years old,
on losing her mother, she became the property, the charge, the
consolation, the fondling of her grandmother and aunt, there had
seemed every probability of her being permanently fixed there; of
her being taught only what very limited means could command, and
growing up with no advantages of connexion or improvement, to be
engrafted on what nature had given her in a pleasing person, good
understanding, and warm-hearted, well-meaning relations.

But the compassionate feelings of a friend of her father gave a
change to her destiny. This was Colonel Campbell, who had very
highly regarded Fairfax, as an excellent officer and most deserving
young man; and farther, had been indebted to him for such
attentions, during a severe camp-fever, as he believed had saved
his life. These were claims which he did not learn to overlook,
though some years passed away from the death of poor Fairfax,
before his own return to England put any thing in his power. When
he did return, he sought out the child and took notice of her. He
was a married man, with only one living child, a girl, about Jane's
age: and Jane became their guest, paying them long visits and
growing a favourite with all; and before she was nine years old,
his daughter's great fondness for her, and his own wish of being a
real friend, united to produce an offer from Colonel Campbell of
undertaking the whole charge of her education. It was accepted; and
from that period Jane had belonged to Colonel Campbell's family,
and had lived with them entirely, only visiting her grandmother
from time to time.

The plan was that she should be brought up for educating others;
the very few hundred pounds which she inherited from her father
making independence impossible. To provide for her otherwise was
out of Colonel Campbell's power; for though his income, by pay and
appointments, was handsome, his fortune was moderate and must be
all his daughter's; but, by giving her an education, he hoped to be
supplying the means of respectable subsistence hereafter.

Such was Jane Fairfax's history. She had fallen into good hands,
known nothing but kindness from the Campbells, and been given an
excellent education. Living constantly with right-minded and
well-informed people, her heart and understanding had received
every advantage of discipline and culture; and Colonel Campbell's
residence being in London, every lighter talent had been done full
justice to, by the attendance of first-rate masters. Her
disposition and abilities were equally worthy of all that
friendship could do; and at eighteen or nineteen she was, as far as
such an early age can be qualified for the care of children, fully
competent to the office of instruction herself; but she was too
much beloved to be parted with. Neither father nor mother could
promote, and the daughter could not endure it. The evil day was put
off. It was easy to decide that she was still too young; and Jane
remained with them, sharing, as another daughter, in all the
rational pleasures of an elegant society, and a judicious mixture
of home and amusement, with only the drawback of the future, the
sobering suggestions of her own good understanding to remind her
that all this might soon be over.

