
"Very true, Miss Woodhouse, so she will. He is the very best
young man—But, my dear Jane, if you remember, I told you yesterday
he was precisely the height of Mr. Perry. Miss Hawkins,—I dare say,
an excellent young woman. His extreme attention to my mother—
wanting her to sit in the vicarage pew, that she might hear the
better, for my mother is a little deaf, you know—it is not much,
but she does not hear quite quick. Jane says that Colonel Campbell
is a little deaf. He fancied bathing might be good for it—the warm
bath— but she says it did him no lasting benefit. Colonel Campbell,
you know, is quite our angel. And Mr. Dixon seems a very charming
young man, quite worthy of him. It is such a happiness when good
people get together—and they always do. Now, here will be Mr. Elton
and Miss Hawkins; and there are the Coles, such very good people;
and the Perrys—I suppose there never was a happier or a better
couple than Mr. and Mrs. Perry. I say, sir," turning to Mr.
Woodhouse, "I think there are few places with such society as
Highbury. I always say, we are quite blessed in our neighbours.—My
dear sir, if there is one thing my mother loves better than
another, it is pork— a roast loin of pork—"

"As to who, or what Miss Hawkins is, or how long he has been
acquainted with her," said Emma, "nothing I suppose can be known.
One feels that it cannot be a very long acquaintance. He has been
gone only four weeks."

Nobody had any information to give; and, after a few more
wonderings, Emma said,

"You are silent, Miss Fairfax—but I hope you mean to take an
interest in this news. You, who have been hearing and seeing so
much of late on these subjects, who must have been so deep in the
business on Miss Campbell's account—we shall not excuse your being
indifferent about Mr. Elton and Miss Hawkins."

"When I have seen Mr. Elton," replied Jane, "I dare say I shall
be interested—but I believe it requires that with me. And as it is
some months since Miss Campbell married, the impression may be a
little worn off."

"Yes, he has been gone just four weeks, as you observe, Miss
Woodhouse," said Miss Bates, "four weeks yesterday.—A Miss
Hawkins!—Well, I had always rather fancied it would be some young
lady hereabouts; not that I ever—Mrs. Cole once whispered to me—but
I immediately said, `No, Mr. Elton is a most worthy young
man—but'—In short, I do not think I am particularly quick at those
sort of discoveries. I do not pretend to it. What is before me, I
see. At the same time, nobody could wonder if Mr. Elton should have
aspired—Miss Woodhouse lets me chatter on, so good-humouredly. She
knows I would not offend for the world. How does Miss Smith do? She
seems quite recovered now. Have you heard from Mrs. John Knightley
lately? Oh! those dear little children. Jane, do you know I always
fancy Mr. Dixon like Mr. John Knightley. I mean in person—tall, and
with that sort of look—and not very talkative."

"Quite wrong, my dear aunt; there is no likeness at all."

"Very odd! but one never does form a just idea of any body
beforehand. One takes up a notion, and runs away with it. Mr.
Dixon, you say, is not, strictly speaking, handsome?"

"Handsome! Oh! no—far from it—certainly plain. I told you he was
plain."

"My dear, you said that Miss Campbell would not allow him to be
plain, and that you yourself—"

