She followed another carriage to Mr. Cole's door; and was
pleased to see that it was Mr. Knightley's; for Mr. Knightley
keeping no horses, having little spare money and a great deal of
health, activity, and independence, was too apt, in Emma's opinion,
to get about as he could, and not use his carriage so often as
became the owner of Donwell Abbey. She had an opportunity now of
speaking her approbation while warm from her heart, for he stopped
to hand her out.

"This is coming as you should do," said she; "like a gentleman.—
I am quite glad to see you."

He thanked her, observing, "How lucky that we should arrive at
the same moment! for, if we had met first in the drawing-room, I
doubt whether you would have discerned me to be more of a gentleman
than usual.— You might not have distinguished how I came, by my
look or manner."

"Yes I should, I am sure I should. There is always a look of
consciousness or bustle when people come in a way which they know
to be beneath them. You think you carry it off very well, I dare
say, but with you it is a sort of bravado, an air of affected
unconcern; I always observe it whenever I meet you under those
circumstances. Now you have nothing to try for. You are not afraid
of being supposed ashamed. You are not striving to look taller than
any body else. Now I shall really be very happy to walk into the
same room with you."

"Nonsensical girl!" was his reply, but not at all in anger.

Emma had as much reason to be satisfied with the rest of the
party as with Mr. Knightley. She was received with a cordial
respect which could not but please, and given all the consequence
she could wish for. When the Westons arrived, the kindest looks of
love, the strongest of admiration were for her, from both husband
and wife; the son approached her with a cheerful eagerness which
marked her as his peculiar object, and at dinner she found him
seated by her—and, as she firmly believed, not without some
dexterity on his side.

The party was rather large, as it included one other family, a
proper unobjectionable country family, whom the Coles had the
advantage of naming among their acquaintance, and the male part of
Mr. Cox's family, the lawyer of Highbury. The less worthy females
were to come in the evening, with Miss Bates, Miss Fairfax, and
Miss Smith; but already, at dinner, they were too numerous for any
subject of conversation to be general; and, while politics and Mr.
Elton were talked over, Emma could fairly surrender all her
attention to the pleasantness of her neighbour. The first remote
sound to which she felt herself obliged to attend, was the name of
Jane Fairfax. Mrs. Cole seemed to be relating something of her that
was expected to be very interesting. She listened, and found it
well worth listening to. That very dear part of Emma, her fancy,
received an amusing supply. Mrs. Cole was telling that she had been
calling on Miss Bates, and as soon as she entered the room had been
struck by the sight of a pianoforte—a very elegant looking
instrument—not a grand, but a large-sized square pianoforte; and
the substance of the story, the end of all the dialogue which
ensued of surprize, and inquiry, and congratulations on her side,
and explanations on Miss Bates's, was, that this pianoforte had
arrived from Broadwood's the day before, to the great astonishment
of both aunt and niece—entirely unexpected; that at first, by Miss
Bates's account, Jane herself was quite at a loss, quite bewildered
to think who could possibly have ordered it— but now, they were
both perfectly satisfied that it could be from only one quarter;—of
course it must be from Colonel Campbell.

"One can suppose nothing else," added Mrs. Cole, "and I was only
surprized that there could ever have been a doubt. But Jane, it
seems, had a letter from them very lately, and not a word was said
about it. She knows their ways best; but I should not consider
their silence as any reason for their not meaning to make the
present. They might chuse to surprize her."

Mrs. Cole had many to agree with her; every body who spoke on
the subject was equally convinced that it must come from Colonel
Campbell, and equally rejoiced that such a present had been made;
and there were enough ready to speak to allow Emma to think her own
way, and still listen to Mrs. Cole.

"I declare, I do not know when I have heard any thing that has
given me more satisfaction!—It always has quite hurt me that Jane
Fairfax, who plays so delightfully, should not have an instrument.
It seemed quite a shame, especially considering how many houses
there are where fine instruments are absolutely thrown away. This
is like giving ourselves a slap, to be sure! and it was but
yesterday I was telling Mr. Cole, I really was ashamed to look at
our new grand pianoforte in the drawing-room, while I do not know
one note from another, and our little girls, who are but just
beginning, perhaps may never make any thing of it; and there is
poor Jane Fairfax, who is mistress of music, has not any thing of
the nature of an instrument, not even the pitifullest old spinet in
the world, to amuse herself with.—I was saying this to Mr. Cole but
yesterday, and he quite agreed with me; only he is so particularly
fond of music that he could not help indulging himself in the
purchase, hoping that some of our good neighbours might be so
obliging occasionally to put it to a better use than we can; and
that really is the reason why the instrument was bought— or else I
am sure we ought to be ashamed of it.—We are in great hopes that
Miss Woodhouse may be prevailed with to try it this evening."

Miss Woodhouse made the proper acquiescence; and finding that
nothing more was to be entrapped from any communication of Mrs.
Cole's, turned to Frank Churchill.
