"I must not dwell upon it," said she.—"I must not think of it. I
know the danger of indulging such speculations. But stranger things
have happened; and when we cease to care for each other as we do
now, it will be the means of confirming us in that sort of true
disinterested friendship which I can already look forward to with
pleasure."

It was well to have a comfort in store on Harriet's behalf,
though it might be wise to let the fancy touch it seldom; for evil
in that quarter was at hand. As Frank Churchill's arrival had
succeeded Mr. Elton's engagement in the conversation of Highbury,
as the latest interest had entirely borne down the first, so now
upon Frank Churchill's disappearance, Mr. Elton's concerns were
assuming the most irresistible form.—His wedding-day was named. He
would soon be among them again; Mr. Elton and his bride. There was
hardly time to talk over the first letter from Enscombe before "Mr.
Elton and his bride" was in every body's mouth, and Frank Churchill
was forgotten. Emma grew sick at the sound. She had had three weeks
of happy exemption from Mr. Elton; and Harriet's mind, she had been
willing to hope, had been lately gaining strength. With Mr.
Weston's ball in view at least, there had been a great deal of
insensibility to other things; but it was now too evident that she
had not attained such a state of composure as could stand against
the actual approach—new carriage, bell-ringing, and all.

Poor Harriet was in a flutter of spirits which required all the
reasonings and soothings and attentions of every kind that Emma
could give. Emma felt that she could not do too much for her, that
Harriet had a right to all her ingenuity and all her patience; but
it was heavy work to be for ever convincing without producing any
effect, for ever agreed to, without being able to make their
opinions the same. Harriet listened submissively, and said "it was
very true— it was just as Miss Woodhouse described—it was not worth
while to think about them—and she would not think about them any
longer" but no change of subject could avail, and the next
half-hour saw her as anxious and restless about the Eltons as
before. At last Emma attacked her on another ground.

"Your allowing yourself to be so occupied and so unhappy about
Mr. Elton's marrying, Harriet, is the strongest reproach you can
make me. You could not give me a greater reproof for the mistake I
fell into. It was all my doing, I know. I have not forgotten it, I
assure you.—Deceived myself, I did very miserably deceive you— and
it will be a painful reflection to me for ever. Do not imagine me
in danger of forgetting it."

Harriet felt this too much to utter more than a few words of
eager exclamation. Emma continued,

"I have not said, exert yourself Harriet for my sake; think
less, talk less of Mr. Elton for my sake; because for your own sake
rather, I would wish it to be done, for the sake of what is more
important than my comfort, a habit of self-command in you, a
consideration of what is your duty, an attention to propriety, an
endeavour to avoid the suspicions of others, to save your health
and credit, and restore your tranquillity. These are the motives
which I have been pressing on you. They are very important—and
sorry I am that you cannot feel them sufficiently to act upon them.
My being saved from pain is a very secondary consideration. I want
you to save yourself from greater pain. Perhaps I may sometimes
have felt that Harriet would not forget what was due—or rather what
would be kind by me."

This appeal to her affections did more than all the rest. The
idea of wanting gratitude and consideration for Miss Woodhouse,
whom she really loved extremely, made her wretched for a while, and
when the violence of grief was comforted away, still remained
powerful enough to prompt to what was right and support her in it
very tolerably.

"You, who have been the best friend I ever had in my life— Want
gratitude to you!—Nobody is equal to you!—I care for nobody as I do
for you!—Oh! Miss Woodhouse, how ungrateful I have been!"

Such expressions, assisted as they were by every thing that look
and manner could do, made Emma feel that she had never loved
Harriet so well, nor valued her affection so highly before.

"There is no charm equal to tenderness of heart," said she
afterwards to herself. "There is nothing to be compared to it.
Warmth and tenderness of heart, with an affectionate, open manner,
will beat all the clearness of head in the world, for attraction, I
am sure it will. It is tenderness of heart which makes my dear
father so generally beloved—which gives Isabella all her
popularity.— I have it not—but I know how to prize and respect
it.—Harriet is my superior in all the charm and all the felicity it
gives. Dear Harriet!—I would not change you for the
clearest-headed, longest-sighted, best-judging female breathing.
Oh! the coldness of a Jane Fairfax!—Harriet is worth a hundred
such—And for a wife— a sensible man's wife—it is invaluable. I
mention no names; but happy the man who changes Emma for
Harriet!"


