
"It is very natural. It is natural, and it is honourable.— Yes,
honourable, I think, to chuse so well and so gratefully.— But that
it will be a fortunate preference is more that I can promise. I do
not advise you to give way to it, Harriet. I do not by any means
engage for its being returned. Consider what you are about. Perhaps
it will be wisest in you to check your feelings while you can: at
any rate do not let them carry you far, unless you are persuaded of
his liking you. Be observant of him. Let his behaviour be the guide
of your sensations. I give you this caution now, because I shall
never speak to you again on the subject. I am determined against
all interference. Henceforward I know nothing of the matter. Let no
name ever pass our lips. We were very wrong before; we will be
cautious now.—He is your superior, no doubt, and there do seem
objections and obstacles of a very serious nature; but yet,
Harriet, more wonderful things have taken place, there have been
matches of greater disparity. But take care of yourself. I would
not have you too sanguine; though, however it may end, be assured
your raising your thoughts to him, is a mark of good taste which I
shall always know how to value."

Harriet kissed her hand in silent and submissive gratitude. Emma
was very decided in thinking such an attachment no bad thing for
her friend. Its tendency would be to raise and refine her mind— and
it must be saving her from the danger of degradation.




