


Chapter

5

&#160;


In this state of schemes, and hopes, and connivance, June opened
upon Hartfield. To Highbury in general it brought no material
change. The Eltons were still talking of a visit from the
Sucklings, and of the use to be made of their barouche-landau; and
Jane Fairfax was still at her grandmother's; and as the return of
the Campbells from Ireland was again delayed, and August, instead
of Midsummer, fixed for it, she was likely to remain there full two
months longer, provided at least she were able to defeat Mrs.
Elton's activity in her service, and save herself from being
hurried into a delightful situation against her will.

Mr. Knightley, who, for some reason best known to himself, had
certainly taken an early dislike to Frank Churchill, was only
growing to dislike him more. He began to suspect him of some double
dealing in his pursuit of Emma. That Emma was his object appeared
indisputable. Every thing declared it; his own attentions, his
father's hints, his mother-in-law's guarded silence; it was all in
unison; words, conduct, discretion, and indiscretion, told the same
story. But while so many were devoting him to Emma, and Emma
herself making him over to Harriet, Mr. Knightley began to suspect
him of some inclination to trifle with Jane Fairfax. He could not
understand it; but there were symptoms of intelligence between
them—he thought so at least— symptoms of admiration on his side,
which, having once observed, he could not persuade himself to think
entirely void of meaning, however he might wish to escape any of
Emma's errors of imagination. She was not present when the
suspicion first arose. He was dining with the Randalls family, and
Jane, at the Eltons'; and he had seen a look, more than a single
look, at Miss Fairfax, which, from the admirer of Miss Woodhouse,
seemed somewhat out of place. When he was again in their company,
he could not help remembering what he had seen; nor could he avoid
observations which, unless it were like Cowper and his fire at
twilight,

"Myself creating what I saw,"

brought him yet stronger suspicion of there being a something of
private liking, of private understanding even, between Frank
Churchill and Jane.

He had walked up one day after dinner, as he very often did, to
spend his evening at Hartfield. Emma and Harriet were going to
walk; he joined them; and, on returning, they fell in with a larger
party, who, like themselves, judged it wisest to take their
exercise early, as the weather threatened rain; Mr. and Mrs. Weston
and their son, Miss Bates and her niece, who had accidentally met.
They all united; and, on reaching Hartfield gates, Emma, who knew
it was exactly the sort of visiting that would be welcome to her
father, pressed them all to go in and drink tea with him. The
Randalls party agreed to it immediately; and after a pretty long
speech from Miss Bates, which few persons listened to, she also
found it possible to accept dear Miss Woodhouse's most obliging
invitation.

As they were turning into the grounds, Mr. Perry passed by on
horseback. The gentlemen spoke of his horse.

