
"Oh! you amuse me excessively. I am delighted to find that you
can vouchsafe to let your imagination wander—but it will not do—
very sorry to check you in your first essay—but indeed it will not
do. There is no admiration between them, I do assure you; and the
appearances which have caught you, have arisen from some peculiar
circumstances—feelings rather of a totally different nature— it is
impossible exactly to explain:—there is a good deal of nonsense in
it—but the part which is capable of being communicated, which is
sense, is, that they are as far from any attachment or admiration
for one another, as any two beings in the world can be. That is, I
presume it to be so on her side, and I can answer for its being so
on his. I will answer for the gentleman's indifference."

She spoke with a confidence which staggered, with a satisfaction
which silenced, Mr. Knightley. She was in gay spirits, and would
have prolonged the conversation, wanting to hear the particulars of
his suspicions, every look described, and all the wheres and hows
of a circumstance which highly entertained her: but his gaiety did
not meet hers. He found he could not be useful, and his feelings
were too much irritated for talking. That he might not be irritated
into an absolute fever, by the fire which Mr. Woodhouse's tender
habits required almost every evening throughout the year, he soon
afterwards took a hasty leave, and walked home to the coolness and
solitude of Donwell Abbey.




