Behold him there, the monarch of the seas!

That is ship;—plain as it can be.—Now for the cream.

But ah! united, (courtship, you know,) what reverse we have!

Man's boasted power and freedom, all are flown.

Lord of the earth and sea, he bends a slave,

And woman, lovely woman, reigns alone.

A very proper compliment!—and then follows the application,
which I think, my dear Harriet, you cannot find much difficulty in
comprehending. Read it in comfort to yourself. There can be no
doubt of its being written for you and to you."

Harriet could not long resist so delightful a persuasion. She
read the concluding lines, and was all flutter and happiness. She
could not speak. But she was not wanted to speak. It was enough for
her to feel. Emma spoke for her.

"There is so pointed, and so particular a meaning in this
compliment," said she, "that I cannot have a doubt as to Mr.
Elton's intentions. You are his object—and you will soon receive
the completest proof of it. I thought it must be so. I thought I
could not be so deceived; but now, it is clear; the state of his
mind is as clear and decided, as my wishes on the subject have been
ever since I knew you. Yes, Harriet, just so long have I been
wanting the very circumstance to happen what has happened. I could
never tell whether an attachment between you and Mr. Elton were
most desirable or most natural. Its probability and its eligibility
have really so equalled each other! I am very happy. I congratulate
you, my dear Harriet, with all my heart. This is an attachment
which a woman may well feel pride in creating. This is a connexion
which offers nothing but good. It will give you every thing that
you want—consideration, independence, a proper home—it will fix you
in the centre of all your real friends, close to Hartfield and to
me, and confirm our intimacy for ever. This, Harriet, is an
alliance which can never raise a blush in either of us."

"Dear Miss Woodhouse!"—and "Dear Miss Woodhouse," was all that
Harriet, with many tender embraces could articulate at first; but
when they did arrive at something more like conversation, it was
sufficiently clear to her friend that she saw, felt, anticipated,
and remembered just as she ought. Mr. Elton's superiority had very
ample acknowledgment.

"Whatever you say is always right," cried Harriet, "and
therefore I suppose, and believe, and hope it must be so; but
otherwise I could not have imagined it. It is so much beyond any
thing I deserve. Mr. Elton, who might marry any body! There cannot
be two opinions about him. He is so very superior. Only think of
those sweet verses—`To Miss ————.' Dear me, how clever!—Could it
really be meant for me?"
