How was she to bear the change?—It was true that her friend was
going only half a mile from them; but Emma was aware that great
must be the difference between a Mrs. Weston, only half a mile from
them, and a Miss Taylor in the house; and with all her advantages,
natural and domestic, she was now in great danger of suffering from
intellectual solitude. She dearly loved her father, but he was no
companion for her. He could not meet her in conversation, rational
or playful.

The evil of the actual disparity in their ages (and Mr.
Woodhouse had not married early) was much increased by his
constitution and habits; for having been a valetudinarian all his
life, without activity of mind or body, he was a much older man in
ways than in years; and though everywhere beloved for the
friendliness of his heart and his amiable temper, his talents could
not have recommended him at any time.

Her sister, though comparatively but little removed by
matrimony, being settled in London, only sixteen miles off, was
much beyond her daily reach; and many a long October and November
evening must be struggled through at Hartfield, before Christmas
brought the next visit from Isabella and her husband, and their
little children, to fill the house, and give her pleasant society
again.

Highbury, the large and populous village, almost amounting to a
town, to which Hartfield, in spite of its separate lawn, and
shrubberies, and name, did really belong, afforded her no equals.
The Woodhouses were first in consequence there. All looked up to
them. She had many acquaintance in the place, for her father was
universally civil, but not one among them who could be accepted in
lieu of Miss Taylor for even half a day. It was a melancholy
change; and Emma could not but sigh over it, and wish for
impossible things, till her father awoke, and made it necessary to
be cheerful. His spirits required support. He was a nervous man,
easily depressed; fond of every body that he was used to, and
hating to part with them; hating change of every kind. Matrimony,
as the origin of change, was always disagreeable; and he was by no
means yet reconciled to his own daughter's marrying, nor could ever
speak of her but with compassion, though it had been entirely a
match of affection, when he was now obliged to part with Miss
Taylor too; and from his habits of gentle selfishness, and of being
never able to suppose that other people could feel differently from
himself, he was very much disposed to think Miss Taylor had done as
sad a thing for herself as for them, and would have been a great
deal happier if she had spent all the rest of her life at
Hartfield. Emma smiled and chatted as cheerfully as she could, to
keep him from such thoughts; but when tea came, it was impossible
for him not to say exactly as he had said at dinner,

"Poor Miss Taylor!—I wish she were here again. What a pity it is
that Mr. Weston ever thought of her!"

"I cannot agree with you, papa; you know I cannot. Mr. Weston is
such a good-humoured, pleasant, excellent man, that he thoroughly
deserves a good wife;—and you would not have had Miss Taylor live
with us for ever, and bear all my odd humours, when she might have
a house of her own?"

"A house of her own!—But where is the advantage of a house of
her own? This is three times as large.—And you have never any odd
humours, my dear."

"How often we shall be going to see them, and they coming to see
us!—We shall be always meeting! We must begin; we must go and pay
wedding visit very soon."

"My dear, how am I to get so far? Randalls is such a distance. I
could not walk half so far."

"No, papa, nobody thought of your walking. We must go in the
carriage, to be sure."

"The carriage! But James will not like to put the horses to for
such a little way;—and where are the poor horses to be while we are
paying our visit?"
