"We want only two more to be just the right number. I should
like to see two more here,—your pretty little friend, Miss Smith,
and my son—and then I should say we were quite complete. I believe
you did not hear me telling the others in the drawing-room that we
are expecting Frank. I had a letter from him this morning, and he
will be with us within a fortnight."

Emma spoke with a very proper degree of pleasure; and fully
assented to his proposition of Mr. Frank Churchill and Miss Smith
making their party quite complete.

"He has been wanting to come to us," continued Mr. Weston, "ever
since September: every letter has been full of it; but he cannot
command his own time. He has those to please who must be pleased,
and who (between ourselves) are sometimes to be pleased only by a
good many sacrifices. But now I have no doubt of seeing him here
about the second week in January."

"What a very great pleasure it will be to you! and Mrs. Weston
is so anxious to be acquainted with him, that she must be almost as
happy as yourself."

"Yes, she would be, but that she thinks there will be another
put-off. She does not depend upon his coming so much as I do: but
she does not know the parties so well as I do. The case, you see,
is—(but this is quite between ourselves: I did not mention a
syllable of it in the other room. There are secrets in all
families, you know)—The case is, that a party of friends are
invited to pay a visit at Enscombe in January; and that Frank's
coming depends upon their being put off. If they are not put off,
he cannot stir. But I know they will, because it is a family that a
certain lady, of some consequence, at Enscombe, has a particular
dislike to: and though it is thought necessary to invite them once
in two or three years, they always are put off when it comes to the
point. I have not the smallest doubt of the issue. I am as
confident of seeing Frank here before the middle of January, as I
am of being here myself: but your good friend there (nodding
towards the upper end of the table) has so few vagaries herself,
and has been so little used to them at Hartfield, that she cannot
calculate on their effects, as I have been long in the practice of
doing."

"I am sorry there should be any thing like doubt in the case,"
replied Emma; "but am disposed to side with you, Mr. Weston. If you
think he will come, I shall think so too; for you know
Enscombe."

"Yes—I have some right to that knowledge; though I have never
been at the place in my life.—She is an odd woman!—But I never
allow myself to speak ill of her, on Frank's account; for I do
believe her to be very fond of him. I used to think she was not
capable of being fond of any body, except herself: but she has
always been kind to him (in her way—allowing for little whims and
caprices, and expecting every thing to be as she likes). And it is
no small credit, in my opinion, to him, that he should excite such
an affection; for, though I would not say it to any body else, she
has no more heart than a stone to people in general; and the devil
of a temper."

Emma liked the subject so well, that she began upon it, to Mrs.
Weston, very soon after their moving into the drawing-room: wishing
her joy— yet observing, that she knew the first meeting must be
rather alarming.— Mrs. Weston agreed to it; but added, that she
should be very glad to be secure of undergoing the anxiety of a
first meeting at the time talked of: "for I cannot depend upon his
coming. I cannot be so sanguine as Mr. Weston. I am very much
afraid that it will all end in nothing. Mr. Weston, I dare say, has
been telling you exactly how the matter stands?"

"Yes—it seems to depend upon nothing but the ill-humour of Mrs.
Churchill, which I imagine to be the most certain thing in the
world."

"My Emma!" replied Mrs. Weston, smiling, "what is the certainty
of caprice?" Then turning to Isabella, who had not been attending
before—"You must know, my dear Mrs. Knightley, that we are by no
means so sure of seeing Mr. Frank Churchill, in my opinion, as his
father thinks. It depends entirely upon his aunt's spirits and
pleasure; in short, upon her temper. To you—to my two daughters—I
may venture on the truth. Mrs. Churchill rules at Enscombe, and is
a very odd-tempered woman; and his coming now, depends upon her
being willing to spare him."

"Oh, Mrs. Churchill; every body knows Mrs. Churchill," replied
Isabella: "and I am sure I never think of that poor young man
without the greatest compassion. To be constantly living with an
ill-tempered person, must be dreadful. It is what we happily have
never known any thing of; but it must be a life of misery. What a
blessing, that she never had any children! Poor little creatures,
how unhappy she would have made them!"
