


Chapter

1

&#160;


Emma and Harriet had been walking together one morning, and, in
Emma's opinion, had been talking enough of Mr. Elton for that day.
She could not think that Harriet's solace or her own sins required
more; and she was therefore industriously getting rid of the
subject as they returned;—but it burst out again when she thought
she had succeeded, and after speaking some time of what the poor
must suffer in winter, and receiving no other answer than a very
plaintive— "Mr. Elton is so good to the poor!" she found something
else must be done.

They were just approaching the house where lived Mrs. and Miss
Bates. She determined to call upon them and seek safety in numbers.
There was always sufficient reason for such an attention; Mrs. and
Miss Bates loved to be called on, and she knew she was considered
by the very few who presumed ever to see imperfection in her, as
rather negligent in that respect, and as not contributing what she
ought to the stock of their scanty comforts.

She had had many a hint from Mr. Knightley and some from her own
heart, as to her deficiency—but none were equal to counteract the
persuasion of its being very disagreeable,—a waste of time—tiresome
women— and all the horror of being in danger of falling in with the
second-rate and third-rate of Highbury, who were calling on them
for ever, and therefore she seldom went near them. But now she made
the sudden resolution of not passing their door without going
in—observing, as she proposed it to Harriet, that, as well as she
could calculate, they were just now quite safe from any letter from
Jane Fairfax.

The house belonged to people in business. Mrs. and Miss Bates
occupied the drawing-room floor; and there, in the very
moderate-sized apartment, which was every thing to them, the
visitors were most cordially and even gratefully welcomed; the
quiet neat old lady, who with her knitting was seated in the
warmest corner, wanting even to give up her place to Miss
Woodhouse, and her more active, talking daughter, almost ready to
overpower them with care and kindness, thanks for their visit,
solicitude for their shoes, anxious inquiries after Mr. Woodhouse's
health, cheerful communications about her mother's, and sweet-cake
from the beaufet—"Mrs. Cole had just been there, just called in for
ten minutes, and had been so good as to sit an hour with them, and
she had taken a piece of cake and been so kind as to say she liked
it very much; and, therefore, she hoped Miss Woodhouse and Miss
Smith would do them the favour to eat a piece too."

The mention of the Coles was sure to be followed by that of Mr.
Elton. There was intimacy between them, and Mr. Cole had heard from
Mr. Elton since his going away. Emma knew what was coming; they
must have the letter over again, and settle how long he had been
gone, and how much he was engaged in company, and what a favourite
he was wherever he went, and how full the Master of the Ceremonies'
ball had been; and she went through it very well, with all the
interest and all the commendation that could be requisite, and
always putting forward to prevent Harriet's being obliged to say a
word.

This she had been prepared for when she entered the house; but
meant, having once talked him handsomely over, to be no farther
incommoded by any troublesome topic, and to wander at large amongst
all the Mistresses and Misses of Highbury, and their card-parties.
She had not been prepared to have Jane Fairfax succeed Mr. Elton;
but he was actually hurried off by Miss Bates, she jumped away from
him at last abruptly to the Coles, to usher in a letter from her
niece.

