"Oh! yes—Mr. Elton, I understand—certainly as to dancing— Mrs.
Cole was telling me that dancing at the rooms at Bath was— Mrs.
Cole was so kind as to sit some time with us, talking of Jane; for
as soon as she came in, she began inquiring after her, Jane is so
very great a favourite there. Whenever she is with us, Mrs. Cole
does not know how to shew her kindness enough; and I must say that
Jane deserves it as much as any body can. And so she began
inquiring after her directly, saying, `I know you cannot have heard
from Jane lately, because it is not her time for writing;' and when
I immediately said, `But indeed we have, we had a letter this very
morning,' I do not know that I ever saw any body more surprized.
`Have you, upon your honour?' said she; `well, that is quite
unexpected. Do let me hear what she says.'"

Emma's politeness was at hand directly, to say, with smiling
interest—

"Have you heard from Miss Fairfax so lately? I am extremely
happy. I hope she is well?"

"Thank you. You are so kind!" replied the happily deceived aunt,
while eagerly hunting for the letter.—"Oh! here it is. I was sure
it could not be far off; but I had put my huswife upon it, you see,
without being aware, and so it was quite hid, but I had it in my
hand so very lately that I was almost sure it must be on the table.
I was reading it to Mrs. Cole, and since she went away, I was
reading it again to my mother, for it is such a pleasure to her— a
letter from Jane—that she can never hear it often enough; so I knew
it could not be far off, and here it is, only just under my
huswife—and since you are so kind as to wish to hear what she
says;—but, first of all, I really must, in justice to Jane,
apologise for her writing so short a letter—only two pages you see—
hardly two—and in general she fills the whole paper and crosses
half. My mother often wonders that I can make it out so well. She
often says, when the letter is first opened, `Well, Hetty, now I
think you will be put to it to make out all that checker-work'—
don't you, ma'am?—And then I tell her, I am sure she would contrive
to make it out herself, if she had nobody to do it for her— every
word of it—I am sure she would pore over it till she had made out
every word. And, indeed, though my mother's eyes are not so good as
they were, she can see amazingly well still, thank God! with the
help of spectacles. It is such a blessing! My mother's are really
very good indeed. Jane often says, when she is here, `I am sure,
grandmama, you must have had very strong eyes to see as you do—and
so much fine work as you have done too!—I only wish my eyes may
last me as well.'"

All this spoken extremely fast obliged Miss Bates to stop for
breath; and Emma said something very civil about the excellence of
Miss Fairfax's handwriting.

"You are extremely kind," replied Miss Bates, highly gratified;
"you who are such a judge, and write so beautifully yourself. I am
sure there is nobody's praise that could give us so much pleasure
as Miss Woodhouse's. My mother does not hear; she is a little deaf
you know. Ma'am," addressing her, "do you hear what Miss Woodhouse
is so obliging to say about Jane's handwriting?"

And Emma had the advantage of hearing her own silly compliment
repeated twice over before the good old lady could comprehend it.
She was pondering, in the meanwhile, upon the possibility, without
seeming very rude, of making her escape from Jane Fairfax's letter,
and had almost resolved on hurrying away directly under some slight
excuse, when Miss Bates turned to her again and seized her
attention.

"My mother's deafness is very trifling you see—just nothing at
all. By only raising my voice, and saying any thing two or three
times over, she is sure to hear; but then she is used to my voice.
But it is very remarkable that she should always hear Jane better
than she does me. Jane speaks so distinct! However, she will not
find her grandmama at all deafer than she was two years ago; which
is saying a great deal at my mother's time of life—and it really is
full two years, you know, since she was here. We never were so long
without seeing her before, and as I was telling Mrs. Cole, we shall
hardly know how to make enough of her now."

"Are you expecting Miss Fairfax here soon?"

"Oh yes; next week."

"Indeed!—that must be a very great pleasure."
