Tom withered him with derision! Huck, being uncommitted as yet,
joined in with Tom, and the waverer quickly "explained," and was
glad to get out of the scrape with as little taint of
chicken-hearted homesickness clinging to his garments as he could.
Mutiny was effectually laid to rest for the moment.

As the night deepened, Huck began to nod, and presently to
snore. Joe followed next. Tom lay upon his elbow motionless, for
some time, watching the two intently. At last he got up cautiously,
on his knees, and went searching among the grass and the flickering
reflections flung by the camp-fire. He picked up and inspected
several large semi-cylinders of the thin white bark of a sycamore,
and finally chose two which seemed to suit him. Then he knelt by
the fire and painfully wrote something upon each of these with his
"red keel"; one he rolled up and put in his jacket pocket, and the
other he put in Joe's hat and removed it to a little distance from
the owner. And he also put into the hat certain schoolboy treasures
of almost inestimable value â€” among them a lump of chalk, an
India-rubber ball, three fishhooks, and one of that kind of marbles
known as a "sure 'nough crystal." Then he tiptoed his way
cautiously among the trees till he felt that he was out of hearing,
and straightway broke into a keen run in the direction of the
sandbar.




