
"Any other boy!" Tom thought, grating his teeth. "Any boy in the
whole town but that Saint Louis smarty that thinks he dresses so
fine and is aristocracy! Oh, all right, I licked you the first day
you ever saw this town, mister, and I'll lick you again! You just
wait till I catch you out! I'll just take and —"

And he went through the motions of thrashing an imaginary boy —
pummelling the air, and kicking and gouging. "Oh, you do, do you?
You holler 'nough, do you? Now, then, let that learn you!" And so
the imaginary flogging was finished to his satisfaction.

Tom fled home at noon. His conscience could not endure any more
of Amy's grateful happiness, and his jealousy could bear no more of
the other distress. Becky resumed her picture inspections with
Alfred, but as the minutes dragged along and no Tom came to suffer,
her triumph began to cloud and she lost interest; gravity and
absent-mindedness followed, and then melancholy; two or three times
she pricked up her ear at a footstep, but it was a false hope; no
Tom came. At last she grew entirely miserable and wished she hadn't
carried it so far. When poor Alfred, seeing that he was losing her,
he did not know how, kept exclaiming: "Oh, here's a jolly one! look
at this!" she lost patience at last, and said, "Oh, don't bother
me! I don't care for them!" and burst into tears, and got up and
walked away.

Alfred dropped alongside and was going to try to comfort her,
but she said:

"Go away and leave me alone, can't you! I hate you!"

So the boy halted, wondering what he could have done — for she
had said she would look at pictures all through the nooning — and
she walked on, crying. Then Alfred went musing into the deserted
schoolhouse. He was humiliated and angry. He easily guessed his way
to the truth — the girl had simply made a convenience of him to
vent her spite upon Tom Sawyer. He was far from hating Tom the less
when this thought occurred to him. He wished there was some way to
get that boy into trouble without much risk to himself. Tom's
spelling-book fell under his eye. Here was his opportunity. He
gratefully opened to the lesson for the afternoon and poured ink
upon the page.

Becky, glancing in at a window behind him at the moment, saw the
act, and moved on, without discovering herself. She started
homeward, now, intending to find Tom and tell him; Tom would be
thankful and their troubles would be healed. Before she was half
way home, however, she had changed her mind. The thought of Tom's
treatment of her when she was talking about her picnic came
scorching back and filled her with shame. She resolved to let him
get whipped on the damaged spelling-book's account, and to hate him
forever, into the bargain.




