
"What's a yew bow?"

"I don't know. It's some kind of a bow, of course. And if he hit
that dime only on the edge he would set down and cry — and curse.
But we'll play Robin Hood — it's nobby fun. I'll learn you."

"I'm agreed."

So they played Robin Hood all the afternoon, now and then
casting a yearning eye down upon the haunted house and passing a
remark about the morrow's prospects and possibilities there. As the
sun began to sink into the west they took their way homeward
athwart the long shadows of the trees and soon were buried from
sight in the forests of Cardiff Hill.

On Saturday, shortly after noon, the boys were at the dead tree
again. They had a smoke and a chat in the shade, and then dug a
little in their last hole, not with great hope, but merely because
Tom said there were so many cases where people had given up a
treasure after getting down within six inches of it, and then
somebody else had come along and turned it up with a single thrust
of a shovel. The thing failed this time, however, so the boys
shouldered their tools and went away feeling that they had not
trifled with fortune, but had fulfilled all the requirements that
belong to the business of treasure-hunting.

When they reached the haunted house there was something so weird
and grisly about the dead silence that reigned there under the
baking sun, and something so depressing about the loneliness and
desolation of the place, that they were afraid, for a moment, to
venture in. Then they crept to the door and took a trembling peep.
They saw a weed-grown, floorless room, unplastered, an ancient
fireplace, vacant windows, a ruinous staircase; and here, there,
and everywhere hung ragged and abandoned cobwebs. They presently
entered, softly, with quickened pulses, talking in whispers, ears
alert to catch the slightest sound, and muscles tense and ready for
instant retreat.

In a little while familiarity modified their fears and they gave
the place a critical and interested examination, rather admiring
their own boldness, and wondering at it, too. Next they wanted to
look up-stairs. This was something like cutting off retreat, but
they got to daring each other, and of course there could be but one
result — they threw their tools into a corner and made the ascent.
Up there were the same signs of decay. In one corner they found a
closet that promised mystery, but the promise was a fraud — there
was nothing in it. Their courage was up now and well in hand. They
were about to go down and begin work when —

"Sh!" said Tom.

"What is it?" whispered Huck, blanching with fright.

"Sh!&#160;… There!&#160;… Hear it?"

