"Oh, that will be fun!"

Then Becky reflected a moment and said:

"But what will mamma say?"

"How'll she ever know?"

The girl turned the idea over in her mind, and said
reluctantly:

"I reckon it's wrong — but —"

"But shucks! Your mother won't know, and so what's the harm? All
she wants is that you'll be safe; and I bet you she'd 'a' said go
there if she'd 'a' thought of it. I know she would!"

The Widow Douglas' splendid hospitality was a tempting bait. It
and Tom's persuasions presently carried the day. So it was decided
to say nothing anybody about the night's programme. Presently it
occurred to Tom that maybe Huck might come this very night and give
the signal. The thought took a deal of the spirit out of his
anticipations. Still he could not bear to give up the fun at Widow
Douglas'. And why should he give it up, he reasoned — the signal
did not come the night before, so why should it be any more likely
to come to-night? The sure fun of the evening outweighed the
uncertain treasure; and, boylike, he determined to yield to the
stronger inclination and not allow himself to think of the box of
money another time that day.

Three miles below town the ferryboat stopped at the mouth of a
woody hollow and tied up. The crowd swarmed ashore and soon the
forest distances and craggy heights echoed far and near with
shoutings and laughter. All the different ways of getting hot and
tired were gone through with, and by-and-by the rovers straggled
back to camp fortified with responsible appetites, and then the
destruction of the good things began. After the feast there was a
refreshing season of rest and chat in the shade of spreading oaks.
By-and-by somebody shouted:

"Who's ready for the cave?"

Everybody was. Bundles of candles were procured, and straightway
there was a general scamper up the hill. The mouth of the cave was
up the hillside — an opening shaped like a letter A. Its massive
oaken door stood unbarred. Within was a small chamber, chilly as an
ice-house, and walled by Nature with solid limestone that was dewy
with a cold sweat. It was romantic and mysterious to stand here in
the deep gloom and look out upon the green valley shining in the
sun. But the impressiveness of the situation quickly wore off, and
the romping began again. The moment a candle was lighted there was
a general rush upon the owner of it; a struggle and a gallant
defence followed, but the candle was soon knocked down or blown
out, and then there was a glad clamor of laughter and a new chase.
But all things have an end. By-and-by the procession went filing
down the steep descent of the main avenue, the flickering rank of
lights dimly revealing the lofty walls of rock almost to their
point of junction sixty feet overhead. This main avenue was not
more than eight or ten feet wide. Every few steps other lofty and
still narrower crevices branched from it on either hand — for
McDougal's cave was but a vast labyrinth of crooked aisles that ran
into each other and out again and led nowhere. It was said that one
might wander days and nights together through its intricate tangle
of rifts and chasms, and never find the end of the cave; and that
he might go down, and down, and still down, into the earth, and it
was just the same — labyrinth under labyrinth, and no end to any of
them. No man "knew" the cave. That was an impossible thing. Most of
the young men knew a portion of it, and it was not customary to
venture much beyond this known portion. Tom Sawyer knew as much of
the cave as any one.
