


Chapter

33

&#160;


Within a few minutes the news had spread, and a dozen
skiff-loads of men were on their way to McDougal's cave, and the
ferryboat, well filled with passengers, soon followed. Tom Sawyer
was in the skiff that bore Judge Thatcher. When the cave door was
unlocked, a sorrowful sight presented itself in the dim twilight of
the place. Injun Joe lay stretched upon the ground, dead, with his
face close to the crack of the door, as if his longing eyes had
been fixed, to the latest moment, upon the light and the cheer of
the free world outside. Tom was touched, for he knew by his own
experience how this wretch had suffered. His pity was moved, but
nevertheless he felt an abounding sense of relief and security,
now, which revealed to him in a degree which he had not fully
appreciated before how vast a weight of dread had been lying upon
him since the day he lifted his voice against this bloody-minded
outcast.

Injun Joe's bowie-knife lay close by, its blade broken in two.
The great foundation-beam of the door had been chipped and hacked
through, with tedious labor; useless labor, too, it was, for the
native rock formed a sill outside it, and upon that stubborn
material the knife had wrought no effect; the only damage done was
to the knife itself. But if there had been no stony obstruction
there the labor would have been useless still, for if the beam had
been wholly cut away Injun Joe could not have squeezed his body
under the door, and he knew it. So he had only hacked that place in
order to be doing something — in order to pass the weary time — in
order to employ his tortured faculties. Ordinarily one could find
half a dozen bits of candle stuck around in the crevices of this
vestibule, left there by tourists; but there were none now. The
prisoner had searched them out and eaten them. He had also
contrived to catch a few bats, and these, also, he had eaten,
leaving only their claws. The poor unfortunate had starved to
death. In one place, near at hand, a stalagmite had been slowly
growing up from the ground for ages, builded by the water-drip from
a stalactite overhead. The captive had broken off the stalagmite,
and upon the stump had placed a stone, wherein he had scooped a
shallow hollow to catch the precious drop that fell once in every
three minutes with the dreary regularity of a clock-tick — a
dessertspoonful once in four and twenty hours. That drop was
falling when the Pyramids were new; when Troy fell; when the
foundations of Rome were laid when Christ was crucified; when the
Conqueror created the British empire; when Columbus sailed; when
the massacre at Lexington was "news." It is falling now; it will
still be falling when all these things shall have sunk down the
afternoon of history, and the twilight of tradition, and been
swallowed up in the thick night of oblivion. Has everything a
purpose and a mission? Did this drop fall patiently during five
thousand years to be ready for this flitting human insect's need?
and has it another important object to accomplish ten thousand
years to come? No matter. It is many and many a year since the
hapless half-breed scooped out the stone to catch the priceless
drops, but to this day the tourist stares longest at that pathetic
stone and that slow-dropping water when he comes to see the wonders
of McDougal's cave. Injun Joe's cup stands first in the list of the
cavern's marvels; even "Aladdin's Palace" cannot rival it.

Injun Joe was buried near the mouth of the cave; and people
flocked there in boats and wagons from the towns and from all the
farms and hamlets for seven miles around; they brought their
children, and all sorts of provisions, and confessed that they had
had almost as satisfactory a time at the funeral as they could have
had at the hanging.

This funeral stopped the further growth of one thing — the
petition to the governor for Injun Joe's pardon. The petition had
been largely signed; many tearful and eloquent meetings had been
held, and a committee of sappy women been appointed to go in deep
mourning and wail around the governor, and implore him to be a
merciful ass and trample his duty under foot. Injun Joe was
believed to have killed five citizens of the village, but what of
that? If he had been Satan himself there would have been plenty of
weaklings ready to scribble their names to a pardon-petition, and
drip a tear on it from their permanently impaired and leaky
water-works.

The morning after the funeral Tom took Huck to a private place
to have an important talk. Huck had learned all about Tom's
adventure from the Welshman and the Widow Douglas, by this time,
but Tom said he reckoned there was one thing they had not told him;
that thing was what he wanted to talk about now. Huck's face
saddened. He said:

"I know what it is. You got into No. 2 and never found anything
but whiskey. Nobody told me it was you; but I just knowed it must
'a' ben you, soon as I heard 'bout that whiskey business; and I
knowed you hadn't got the money becuz you'd 'a' got at me some way
or other and told me even if you was mum to everybody else. Tom,
something's always told me we'd never get holt of that swag."

