
"Never you mind, Tom. You know if I say it's nice, it is
nice."

"You bet you that's so, Mary. All right, I'll tackle it
again."

And he did "tackle it again" — and under the double pressure of
curiosity and prospective gain he did it with such spirit that he
accomplished a shining success. Mary gave him a brand-new "Barlow"
knife worth twelve and a half cents; and the convulsion of delight
that swept his system shook him to his foundations. True, the knife
would not cut anything, but it was a "sure-enough" Barlow, and
there was inconceivable grandeur in that — though where the Western
boys ever got the idea that such a weapon could possibly be
counterfeited to its injury is an imposing mystery and will always
remain so, perhaps. Tom contrived to scarify the cupboard with it,
and was arranging to begin on the bureau, when he was called off to
dress for Sunday-school.

Mary gave him a tin basin of water and a piece of soap, and he
went outside the door and set the basin on a little bench there;
then he dipped the soap in the water and laid it down; turned up
his sleeves; poured out the water on the ground, gently, and then
entered the kitchen and began to wipe his face diligently on the
towel behind the door. But Mary removed the towel and said:

"Now ain't you ashamed, Tom. You mustn't be so bad. Water won't
hurt you."

Tom was a trifle disconcerted. The basin was refilled, and this
time he stood over it a little while, gathering resolution; took in
a big breath and began. When he entered the kitchen presently, with
both eyes shut and groping for the towel with his hands, an
honorable testimony of suds and water was dripping from his face.
But when he emerged from the towel, he was not yet satisfactory,
for the clean territory stopped short at his chin and his jaws,
like a mask; below and beyond this line there was a dark expanse of
unirrigated soil that spread downward in front and backward around
his neck. Mary took him in hand, and when she was done with him he
was a man and a brother, without distinction of color, and his
saturated hair was neatly brushed, and its short curls wrought into
a dainty and symmetrical general effect. [He privately smoothed out
the curls, with labor and difficulty, and plastered his hair close
down to his head; for he held curls to be effeminate, and his own
filled his life with bitterness.] Then Mary got out a suit of his
clothing that had been used only on Sundays during two years — they
were simply called his "other clothes" — and so by that we know the
size of his wardrobe. The girl "put him to rights" after he had
dressed himself; she buttoned his neat roundabout up to his chin,
turned his vast shirt collar down over his shoulders, brushed him
off and crowned him with his speckled straw hat. He now looked
exceedingly improved and uncomfortable. He was fully as
uncomfortable as he looked; for there was a restraint about whole
clothes and cleanliness that galled him. He hoped that Mary would
forget his shoes, but the hope was blighted; she coated them
thoroughly with tallow, as was the custom, and brought them out. He
lost his temper and said he was always being made to do everything
he didn't want to do. But Mary said, persuasively:

"Please, Tom — that's a good boy."

So he got into the shoes snarling. Mary was soon ready, and the
three children set out for Sunday-school — a place that Tom hated
with his whole heart; but Sid and Mary were fond of it.

Sabbath-school hours were from nine to half-past ten; and then
church service. Two of the children always remained for the sermon
voluntarily, and the other always remained too — for stronger
reasons. The church's high-backed, uncushioned pews would seat
about three hundred persons; the edifice was but a small, plain
affair, with a sort of pine board tree-box on top of it for a
steeple. At the door Tom dropped back a step and accosted a
Sunday-dressed comrade:

"Say, Billy, got a yaller ticket?"

