


Chapter

7

&#160;


The harder Tom tried to fasten his mind on his book, the more
his ideas wandered. So at last, with a sigh and a yawn, he gave it
up. It seemed to him that the noon recess would never come. The air
was utterly dead. There was not a breath stirring. It was the
sleepiest of sleepy days. The drowsing murmur of the five and
twenty studying scholars soothed the soul like the spell that is in
the murmur of bees. Away off in the flaming sunshine, Cardiff Hill
lifted its soft green sides through a shimmering veil of heat,
tinted with the purple of distance; a few birds floated on lazy
wing high in the air; no other living thing was visible but some
cows, and they were asleep. Tom's heart ached to be free, or else
to have something of interest to do to pass the dreary time. His
hand wandered into his pocket and his face lit up with a glow of
gratitude that was prayer, though he did not know it. Then
furtively the percussion-cap box came out. He released the tick and
put him on the long flat desk. The creature probably glowed with a
gratitude that amounted to prayer, too, at this moment, but it was
premature: for when he started thankfully to travel off, Tom turned
him aside with a pin and made him take a new direction.

Tom's bosom friend sat next him, suffering just as Tom had been,
and now he was deeply and gratefully interested in this
entertainment in an instant. This bosom friend was Joe Harper. The
two boys were sworn friends all the week, and embattled enemies on
Saturdays. Joe took a pin out of his lapel and began to assist in
exercising the prisoner. The sport grew in interest momently. Soon
Tom said that they were interfering with each other, and neither
getting the fullest benefit of the tick. So he put Joe's slate on
the desk and drew a line down the middle of it from top to
bottom.

"Now," said he, "as long as he is on your side you can stir him
up and I'll let him alone; but if you let him get away and get on
my side, you're to leave him alone as long as I can keep him from
crossing over."

"All right, go ahead; start him up."

The tick escaped from Tom, presently, and crossed the equator.
Joe harassed him awhile, and then he got away and crossed back
again. This change of base occurred often. While one boy was
worrying the tick with absorbing interest, the other would look on
with interest as strong, the two heads bowed together over the
slate, and the two souls dead to all things else. At last luck
seemed to settle and abide with Joe. The tick tried this, that, and
the other course, and got as excited and as anxious as the boys
themselves, but time and again just as he would have victory in his
very grasp, so to speak, and Tom's fingers would be twitching to
begin, Joe's pin would deftly head him off, and keep possession. At
last Tom could stand it no longer. The temptation was too strong.
So he reached out and lent a hand with his pin. Joe was angry in a
moment. Said he:

"Tom, you let him alone."

