"Yes, and you done more than that," said Injun Joe, approaching
the doctor, who was now standing. "Five years ago you drove me away
from your father's kitchen one night, when I come to ask for
something to eat, and you said I warn't there for any good; and
when I swore I'd get even with you if it took a hundred years, your
father had me jailed for a vagrant. Did you think I'd forget? The
Injun blood ain't in me for nothing. And now I've got you, and you
got to settle, you know!"

He was threatening the doctor, with his fist in his face, by
this time. The doctor struck out suddenly and stretched the ruffian
on the ground. Potter dropped his knife, and exclaimed:

"Here, now, don't you hit my pard!" and the next moment he had
grappled with the doctor and the two were struggling with might and
main, trampling the grass and tearing the ground with their heels.
Injun Joe sprang to his feet, his eyes flaming with passion,
snatched up Potter's knife, and went creeping, catlike and
stooping, round and round about the combatants, seeking an
opportunity. All at once the doctor flung himself free, seized the
heavy headboard of Williams' grave and felled Potter to the earth
with it — and in the same instant the half-breed saw his chance and
drove the knife to the hilt in the young man's breast. He reeled
and fell partly upon Potter, flooding him with his blood, and in
the same moment the clouds blotted out the dreadful spectacle and
the two frightened boys went speeding away in the dark.

Presently, when the moon emerged again, Injun Joe was standing
over the two forms, contemplating them. The doctor murmured
inarticulately, gave a long gasp or two and was still. The
half-breed muttered:

"That score is settled — damn you."

Then he robbed the body. After which he put the fatal knife in
Potter's open right hand, and sat down on the dismantled coffin.
Three — four — five minutes passed, and then Potter began to stir
and moan. His hand closed upon the knife; he raised it, glanced at
it, and let it fall, with a shudder. Then he sat up, pushing the
body from him, and gazed at it, and then around him, confusedly.
His eyes met Joe's.

"Lord, how is this, Joe?" he said.

"It's a dirty business," said Joe, without moving.

"What did you do it for?"

"I! I never done it!"

"Look here! That kind of talk won't wash."
