


Chapter

12

&#160;


One of the reasons why Tom's mind had drifted away from its
secret troubles was, that it had found a new and weighty matter to
interest itself about. Becky Thatcher had stopped coming to school.
Tom had struggled with his pride a few days, and tried to "whistle
her down the wind," but failed. He began to find himself hanging
around her father's house, nights, and feeling very miserable. She
was ill. What if she should die! There was distraction in the
thought. He no longer took an interest in war, nor even in piracy.
The charm of life was gone; there was nothing but dreariness left.
He put his hoop away, and his bat; there was no joy in them any
more. His aunt was concerned. She began to try all manner of
remedies on him. She was one of those people who are infatuated
with patent medicines and all new-fangled methods of producing
health or mending it. She was an inveterate experimenter in these
things. When something fresh in this line came out she was in a
fever, right away, to try it; not on herself, for she was never
ailing, but on anybody else that came handy. She was a subscriber
for all the "Health" periodicals and phrenological frauds; and the
solemn ignorance they were inflated with was breath to her
nostrils. All the "rot" they contained about ventilation, and how
to go to bed, and how to get up, and what to eat, and what to
drink, and how much exercise to take, and what frame of mind to
keep one's self in, and what sort of clothing to wear, was all
gospel to her, and she never observed that her health-journals of
the current month customarily upset everything they had recommended
the month before. She was as simple-hearted and honest as the day
was long, and so she was an easy victim. She gathered together her
quack periodicals and her quack medicines, and thus armed with
death, went about on her pale horse, metaphorically speaking, with
"hell following after." But she never suspected that she was not an
angel of healing and the balm of Gilead in disguise, to the
suffering neighbors. The water treatment was new, now, and Tom's
low condition was a windfall to her. She had him out at daylight
every morning, stood him up in the woodshed and drowned him with a
deluge of cold water; then she scrubbed him down with a towel like
a file, and so brought him to; then she rolled him up in a wet
sheet and put him away under blankets till she sweated his soul
clean and "the yellow stains of it came through his pores" â€” as Tom
said.

Yet notwithstanding all this, the boy grew more and more
melancholy and pale and dejected. She added hot baths, sitz baths,
shower baths, and plunges. The boy remained as dismal as a hearse.
She began to assist the water with a slim oatmeal diet and
blister-plasters. She calculated his capacity as she would a jug's,
and filled him up every day with quack cure-alls.

Tom had become indifferent to persecution by this time. This
phase filled the old lady's heart with consternation. This
indifference must be broken up at any cost. Now she heard of
Pain-killer for the first time. She ordered a lot at once. She
tasted it and was filled with gratitude. It was simply fire in a
liquid form. She dropped the water treatment and everything else,
and pinned her faith to Pain-killer. She gave Tom a teaspoonful and
watched with the deepest anxiety for the result. Her troubles were
instantly at rest, her soul at peace again; for the "indifference"
was broken up. The boy could not have shown a wilder, heartier
interest, if she had built a fire under him.

Tom felt that it was time to wake up; this sort of life might be
romantic enough, in his blighted condition, but it was getting to
have too little sentiment and too much distracting variety about
it. So he thought over various plans for relief, and finally hit
pon that of professing to be fond of Pain-killer. He asked for it
so often that he became a nuisance, and his aunt ended by telling
him to help himself and quit bothering her. If it had been Sid, she
would have had no misgivings to alloy her delight; but since it was
Tom, she watched the bottle clandestinely. She found that the
medicine did really diminish, but it did not occur to her that the
boy was mending the health of a crack in the sitting-room floor
with it.

One day Tom was in the act of dosing the crack when his aunt's
yellow cat came along, purring, eying the teaspoon avariciously,
and begging for a taste. Tom said:

"Don't ask for it unless you want it, Peter."

