He had only himself to please in his choice: his fortune was his
own; for as to Frank, it was more than being tacitly brought up as
his uncle's heir, it had become so avowed an adoption as to have
him assume the name of Churchill on coming of age. It was most
unlikely, therefore, that he should ever want his father's
assistance. His father had no apprehension of it. The aunt was a
capricious woman, and governed her husband entirely; but it was not
in Mr. Weston's nature to imagine that any caprice could be strong
enough to affect one so dear, and, as he believed, so deservedly
dear. He saw his son every year in London, and was proud of him;
and his fond report of him as a very fine young man had made
Highbury feel a sort of pride in him too. He was looked on as
sufficiently belonging to the place to make his merits and
prospects a kind of common concern.

Mr. Frank Churchill was one of the boasts of Highbury, and a
lively curiosity to see him prevailed, though the compliment was so
little returned that he had never been there in his life. His
coming to visit his father had been often talked of but never
achieved.

Now, upon his father's marriage, it was very generally proposed,
as a most proper attention, that the visit should take place. There
was not a dissentient voice on the subject, either when Mrs. Perry
drank tea with Mrs. and Miss Bates, or when Mrs. and Miss Bates
returned the visit. Now was the time for Mr. Frank Churchill to
come among them; and the hope strengthened when it was understood
that he had written to his new mother on the occasion. For a few
days, every morning visit in Highbury included some mention of the
handsome letter Mrs. Weston had received. "I suppose you have heard
of the handsome letter Mr. Frank Churchill has written to Mrs.
Weston? I understand it was a very handsome letter, indeed. Mr.
Woodhouse told me of it. Mr. Woodhouse saw the letter, and he says
he never saw such a handsome letter in his life."

It was, indeed, a highly prized letter. Mrs. Weston had, of
course, formed a very favourable idea of the young man; and such a
pleasing attention was an irresistible proof of his great good
sense, and a most welcome addition to every source and every
expression of congratulation which her marriage had already
secured. She felt herself a most fortunate woman; and she had lived
long enough to know how fortunate she might well be thought, where
the only regret was for a partial separation from friends whose
friendship for her had never cooled, and who could ill bear to part
with her.

She knew that at times she must be missed; and could not think,
without pain, of Emma's losing a single pleasure, or suffering an
hour's ennui, from the want of her companionableness: but dear Emma
was of no feeble character; she was more equal to her situation
than most girls would have been, and had sense, and energy, and
spirits that might be hoped would bear her well and happily through
its little difficulties and privations. And then there was such
comfort in the very easy distance of Randalls from Hartfield, so
convenient for even solitary female walking, and in Mr. Weston's
disposition and circumstances, which would make the approaching
season no hindrance to their spending half the evenings in the week
together.

Her situation was altogether the subject of hours of gratitude
to Mrs. Weston, and of moments only of regret; and her
satisfaction—her more than satisfaction—her cheerful enjoyment, was
so just and so apparent, that Emma, well as she knew her father,
was sometimes taken by surprize at his being still able to pity
`poor Miss Taylor,' when they left her at Randalls in the centre of
every domestic comfort, or saw her go away in the evening attended
by her pleasant husband to a carriage of her own. But never did she
go without Mr. Woodhouse's giving a gentle sigh, and saying, "Ah,
poor Miss Taylor! She would be very glad to stay."

There was no recovering Miss Taylor—nor much likelihood of
ceasing to pity her; but a few weeks brought some alleviation to
Mr. Woodhouse. The compliments of his neighbours were over; he was
no longer teased by being wished joy of so sorrowful an event; and
the wedding-cake, which had been a great distress to him, was all
eat up. His own stomach could bear nothing rich, and he could never
believe other people to be different from himself. What was
unwholesome to him he regarded as unfit for any body; and he had,
therefore, earnestly tried to dissuade them from having any
wedding-cake at all, and when that proved vain, as earnestly tried
to prevent any body's eating it. He had been at the pains of
consulting Mr. Perry, the apothecary, on the subject. Mr. Perry was
an intelligent, gentlemanlike man, whose frequent visits were one
of the comforts of Mr. Woodhouse's life; and upon being applied to,
he could not but acknowledge (though it seemed rather against the
bias of inclination) that wedding-cake might certainly disagree
with many—perhaps with most people, unless taken moderately. With
such an opinion, in confirmation of his own, Mr. Woodhouse hoped to
influence every visitor of the newly married pair; but still the
cake was eaten; and there was no rest for his benevolent nerves
till it was all gone.

There was a strange rumour in Highbury of all the little Perrys
being seen with a slice of Mrs. Weston's wedding-cake in their
hands: but Mr. Woodhouse would never believe it.




