"My brother and sister have promised us a visit in the spring,
or summer at farthest," continued Mrs. Elton; "and that will be our
time for exploring. While they are with us, we shall explore a
great deal, I dare say. They will have their barouche-landau, of
course, which holds four perfectly; and therefore, without saying
any thing of our carriage, we should be able to explore the
different beauties extremely well. They would hardly come in their
chaise, I think, at that season of the year. Indeed, when the time
draws on, I shall decidedly recommend their bringing the
barouche-landau; it will be so very much preferable. When people
come into a beautiful country of this sort, you know, Miss
Woodhouse, one naturally wishes them to see as much as possible;
and Mr. Suckling is extremely fond of exploring. We explored to
King's-Weston twice last summer, in that way, most delightfully,
just after their first having the barouche-landau. You have many
parties of that kind here, I suppose, Miss Woodhouse, every
summer?"

"No; not immediately here. We are rather out of distance of the
very striking beauties which attract the sort of parties you speak
of; and we are a very quiet set of people, I believe; more disposed
to stay at home than engage in schemes of pleasure."

"Ah! there is nothing like staying at home for real comfort.
Nobody can be more devoted to home than I am. I was quite a proverb
for it at Maple Grove. Many a time has Selina said, when she has
been going to Bristol, `I really cannot get this girl to move from
the house. I absolutely must go in by myself, though I hate being
stuck up in the barouche-landau without a companion; but Augusta, I
believe, with her own good-will, would never stir beyond the park
paling.' Many a time has she said so; and yet I am no advocate for
entire seclusion. I think, on the contrary, when people shut
themselves up entirely from society, it is a very bad thing; and
that it is much more advisable to mix in the world in a proper
degree, without living in it either too much or too little. I
perfectly understand your situation, however, Miss Woodhouse—
(looking towards Mr. Woodhouse), Your father's state of health must
be a great drawback. Why does not he try Bath?—Indeed he should.
Let me recommend Bath to you. I assure you I have no doubt of its
doing Mr. Woodhouse good."

"My father tried it more than once, formerly; but without
receiving any benefit; and Mr. Perry, whose name, I dare say, is
not unknown to you, does not conceive it would be at all more
likely to be useful now."

"Ah! that's a great pity; for I assure you, Miss Woodhouse,
where the waters do agree, it is quite wonderful the relief they
give. In my Bath life, I have seen such instances of it! And it is
so cheerful a place, that it could not fail of being of use to Mr.
Woodhouse's spirits, which, I understand, are sometimes much
depressed. And as to its recommendations to you, I fancy I need not
take much pains to dwell on them. The advantages of Bath to the
young are pretty generally understood. It would be a charming
introduction for you, who have lived so secluded a life; and I
could immediately secure you some of the best society in the place.
A line from me would bring you a little host of acquaintance; and
my particular friend, Mrs. Partridge, the lady I have always
resided with when in Bath, would be most happy to shew you any
attentions, and would be the very person for you to go into public
with."

It was as much as Emma could bear, without being impolite. The
idea of her being indebted to Mrs. Elton for what was called an
introduction—of her going into public under the auspices of a
friend of Mrs. Elton's—probably some vulgar, dashing widow, who,
with the help of a boarder, just made a shift to live!— The dignity
of Miss Woodhouse, of Hartfield, was sunk indeed!

She restrained herself, however, from any of the reproofs she
could have given, and only thanked Mrs. Elton coolly; "but their
going to Bath was quite out of the question; and she was not
perfectly convinced that the place might suit her better than her
father." And then, to prevent farther outrage and indignation,
changed the subject directly.

"I do not ask whether you are musical, Mrs. Elton. Upon these
occasions, a lady's character generally precedes her; and Highbury
has long known that you are a superior performer."

"Oh! no, indeed; I must protest against any such idea. A
superior performer!—very far from it, I assure you. Consider from
how partial a quarter your information came. I am doatingly fond of
music—passionately fond;—and my friends say I am not entirely
devoid of taste; but as to any thing else, upon my honour my
performance is mediocre to the last degree. You, Miss Woodhouse, I
well know, play delightfully. I assure you it has been the greatest
satisfaction, comfort, and delight to me, to hear what a musical
society I am got into. I absolutely cannot do without music. It is
a necessary of life to me; and having always been used to a very
musical society, both at Maple Grove and in Bath, it would have
been a most serious sacrifice. I honestly said as much to Mr. E.
when he was speaking of my future home, and expressing his fears
lest the retirement of it should be disagreeable; and the
inferiority of the house too—knowing what I had been accustomed
to—of course he was not wholly without apprehension. When he was
speaking of it in that way, I honestly said that the world I could
give up—parties, balls, plays—for I had no fear of retirement.
Blessed with so many resources within myself, the world was not
necessary to me. I could do very well without it. To those who had
no resources it was a different thing; but my resources made me
quite independent. And as to smaller-sized rooms than I had been
used to, I really could not give it a thought. I hoped I was
perfectly equal to any sacrifice of that description. Certainly I
had been accustomed to every luxury at Maple Grove; but I did
assure him that two carriages were not necessary to my happiness,
nor were spacious apartments. `But,' said I, `to be quite honest, I
do not think I can live without something of a musical society. I
condition for nothing else; but without music, life would be a
blank to me.'"

"We cannot suppose," said Emma, smiling, "that Mr. Elton would
hesitate to assure you of there being a very musical society in
Highbury; and I hope you will not find he has outstepped the truth
more than may be pardoned, in consideration of the motive."

"No, indeed, I have no doubts at all on that head. I am
delighted to find myself in such a circle. I hope we shall have
many sweet little concerts together. I think, Miss Woodhouse, you
and I must establish a musical club, and have regular weekly
meetings at your house, or ours. Will not it be a good plan? If we
exert ourselves, I think we shall not be long in want of allies.
Something of that nature would be particularly desirable for me, as
an inducement to keep me in practice; for married women, you know—
there is a sad story against them, in general. They are but too apt
to give up music."
