"Well done, Mrs. Martin!" thought Emma. "You know what you are
about."

"And when she had come away, Mrs. Martin was so very kind as to
send Mrs. Goddard a beautiful goose—the finest goose Mrs. Goddard
had ever seen. Mrs. Goddard had dressed it on a Sunday, and asked
all the three teachers, Miss Nash, and Miss Prince, and Miss
Richardson, to sup with her."

"Mr. Martin, I suppose, is not a man of information beyond the
line of his own business? He does not read?"

"Oh yes!—that is, no—I do not know—but I believe he has read a
good deal—but not what you would think any thing of. He reads the
Agricultural Reports, and some other books that lay in one of the
window seats—but he reads all them to himself. But sometimes of an
evening, before we went to cards, he would read something aloud out
of the Elegant Extracts, very entertaining. And I know he has read
the Vicar of Wakefield. He never read the Romance of the Forest,
nor The Children of the Abbey. He had never heard of such books
before I mentioned them, but he is determined to get them now as
soon as ever he can."

The next question was—

"What sort of looking man is Mr. Martin?"

"Oh! not handsome—not at all handsome. I thought him very plain
at first, but I do not think him so plain now. One does not, you
know, after a time. But did you never see him? He is in Highbury
every now and then, and he is sure to ride through every week in
his way to Kingston. He has passed you very often."

"That may be, and I may have seen him fifty times, but without
having any idea of his name. A young farmer, whether on horseback
or on foot, is the very last sort of person to raise my curiosity.
The yeomanry are precisely the order of people with whom I feel I
can have nothing to do. A degree or two lower, and a creditable
appearance might interest me; I might hope to be useful to their
families in some way or other. But a farmer can need none of my
help, and is, therefore, in one sense, as much above my notice as
in every other he is below it."

"To be sure. Oh yes! It is not likely you should ever have
observed him; but he knows you very well indeed—I mean by
sight."

"I have no doubt of his being a very respectable young man. I
know, indeed, that he is so, and, as such, wish him well. What do
you imagine his age to be?"

"He was four-and-twenty the 8th of last June, and my birthday is
the 23rd just a fortnight and a day's difference—which is very
odd."
