


Chapter

15

&#160;


Emma was not required, by any subsequent discovery, to retract
her ill opinion of Mrs. Elton. Her observation had been pretty
correct. Such as Mrs. Elton appeared to her on this second
interview, such she appeared whenever they met
again,—self-important, presuming, familiar, ignorant, and ill-bred.
She had a little beauty and a little accomplishment, but so little
judgment that she thought herself coming with superior knowledge of
the world, to enliven and improve a country neighbourhood; and
conceived Miss Hawkins to have held such a place in society as Mrs.
Elton's consequence only could surpass.

There was no reason to suppose Mr. Elton thought at all
differently from his wife. He seemed not merely happy with her, but
proud. He had the air of congratulating himself on having brought
such a woman to Highbury, as not even Miss Woodhouse could equal;
and the greater part of her new acquaintance, disposed to commend,
or not in the habit of judging, following the lead of Miss Bates's
good-will, or taking it for granted that the bride must be as
clever and as agreeable as she professed herself, were very well
satisfied; so that Mrs. Elton's praise passed from one mouth to
another as it ought to do, unimpeded by Miss Woodhouse, who readily
continued her first contribution and talked with a good grace of
her being "very pleasant and very elegantly dressed."

In one respect Mrs. Elton grew even worse than she had appeared
at first. Her feelings altered towards Emma.—Offended, probably, by
the little encouragement which her proposals of intimacy met with,
she drew back in her turn and gradually became much more cold and
distant; and though the effect was agreeable, the ill-will which
produced it was necessarily increasing Emma's dislike. Her manners,
too—and Mr. Elton's, were unpleasant towards Harriet. They were
sneering and negligent. Emma hoped it must rapidly work Harriet's
cure; but the sensations which could prompt such behaviour sunk
them both very much.—It was not to be doubted that poor Harriet's
attachment had been an offering to conjugal unreserve, and her own
share in the story, under a colouring the least favourable to her
and the most soothing to him, had in all likelihood been given
also. She was, of course, the object of their joint dislike.— When
they had nothing else to say, it must be always easy to begin
abusing Miss Woodhouse; and the enmity which they dared not shew in
open disrespect to her, found a broader vent in contemptuous
treatment of Harriet.

Mrs. Elton took a great fancy to Jane Fairfax; and from the
first. Not merely when a state of warfare with one young lady might
be supposed to recommend the other, but from the very first; and
she was not satisfied with expressing a natural and reasonable
admiration— but without solicitation, or plea, or privilege, she
must be wanting to assist and befriend her.—Before Emma had
forfeited her confidence, and about the third time of their
meeting, she heard all Mrs. Elton's knight-errantry on the
subject.—

"Jane Fairfax is absolutely charming, Miss Woodhouse.—I quite
rave about Jane Fairfax.—A sweet, interesting creature. So mild and
ladylike—and with such talents!—I assure you I think she has very
extraordinary talents. I do not scruple to say that she plays
extremely well. I know enough of music to speak decidedly on that
point. Oh! she is absolutely charming! You will laugh at my
warmth—but, upon my word, I talk of nothing but Jane Fairfax.— And
her situation is so calculated to affect one!—Miss Woodhouse, we
must exert ourselves and endeavour to do something for her. We must
bring her forward. Such talent as hers must not be suffered to
remain unknown.—I dare say you have heard those charming lines of
the poet,

`Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,

