She was stopped by a slight fit of coughing, and Mr. Weston
instantly seized the opportunity of going on.

"You were mentioning May. May is the very month which Mrs.
Churchill is ordered, or has ordered herself, to spend in some
warmer place than Enscombe—in short, to spend in London; so that we
have the agreeable prospect of frequent visits from Frank the whole
spring— precisely the season of the year which one should have
chosen for it: days almost at the longest; weather genial and
pleasant, always inviting one out, and never too hot for exercise.
When he was here before, we made the best of it; but there was a
good deal of wet, damp, cheerless weather; there always is in
February, you know, and we could not do half that we intended. Now
will be the time. This will be complete enjoyment; and I do not
know, Mrs. Elton, whether the uncertainty of our meetings, the sort
of constant expectation there will be of his coming in to-day or
to-morrow, and at any hour, may not be more friendly to happiness
than having him actually in the house. I think it is so. I think it
is the state of mind which gives most spirit and delight. I hope
you will be pleased with my son; but you must not expect a prodigy.
He is generally thought a fine young man, but do not expect a
prodigy. Mrs. Weston's partiality for him is very great, and, as
you may suppose, most gratifying to me. She thinks nobody equal to
him."

"And I assure you, Mr. Weston, I have very little doubt that my
opinion will be decidedly in his favour. I have heard so much in
praise of Mr. Frank Churchill.—At the same time it is fair to
observe, that I am one of those who always judge for themselves,
and are by no means implicitly guided by others. I give you notice
that as I find your son, so I shall judge of him.—I am no
flatterer."

Mr. Weston was musing.

"I hope," said he presently, "I have not been severe upon poor
Mrs. Churchill. If she is ill I should be sorry to do her
injustice; but there are some traits in her character which make it
difficult for me to speak of her with the forbearance I could wish.
You cannot be ignorant, Mrs. Elton, of my connexion with the
family, nor of the treatment I have met with; and, between
ourselves, the whole blame of it is to be laid to her. She was the
instigator. Frank's mother would never have been slighted as she
was but for her. Mr. Churchill has pride; but his pride is nothing
to his wife's: his is a quiet, indolent, gentlemanlike sort of
pride that would harm nobody, and only make himself a little
helpless and tiresome; but her pride is arrogance and insolence!
And what inclines one less to bear, she has no fair pretence of
family or blood. She was nobody when he married her, barely the
daughter of a gentleman; but ever since her being turned into a
Churchill she has out-Churchill'd them all in high and mighty
claims: but in herself, I assure you, she is an upstart."

"Only think! well, that must be infinitely provoking! I have
quite a horror of upstarts. Maple Grove has given me a thorough
disgust to people of that sort; for there is a family in that
neighbourhood who are such an annoyance to my brother and sister
from the airs they give themselves! Your description of Mrs.
Churchill made me think of them directly. People of the name of
Tupman, very lately settled there, and encumbered with many low
connexions, but giving themselves immense airs, and expecting to be
on a footing with the old established families. A year and a half
is the very utmost that they can have lived at West Hall; and how
they got their fortune nobody knows. They came from Birmingham,
which is not a place to promise much, you know, Mr. Weston. One has
not great hopes from Birmingham. I always say there is something
direful in the sound: but nothing more is positively known of the
Tupmans, though a good many things I assure you are suspected; and
yet by their manners they evidently think themselves equal even to
my brother, Mr. Suckling, who happens to be one of their nearest
neighbours. It is infinitely too bad. Mr. Suckling, who has been
eleven years a resident at Maple Grove, and whose father had it
before him—I believe, at least—I am almost sure that old Mr.
Suckling had completed the purchase before his death."

They were interrupted. Tea was carrying round, and Mr. Weston,
having said all that he wanted, soon took the opportunity of
walking away.

After tea, Mr. and Mrs. Weston, and Mr. Elton sat down with Mr.
Woodhouse to cards. The remaining five were left to their own
powers, and Emma doubted their getting on very well; for Mr.
Knightley seemed little disposed for conversation; Mrs. Elton was
wanting notice, which nobody had inclination to pay, and she was
herself in a worry of spirits which would have made her prefer
being silent.

Mr. John Knightley proved more talkative than his brother. He
was to leave them early the next day; and he soon began with—

"Well, Emma, I do not believe I have any thing more to say about
the boys; but you have your sister's letter, and every thing is
down at full length there we may be sure. My charge would be much
more concise than her's, and probably not much in the same spirit;
all that I have to recommend being comprised in, do not spoil them,
and do not physic them."

"I rather hope to satisfy you both," said Emma, "for I shall do
all in my power to make them happy, which will be enough for
Isabella; and happiness must preclude false indulgence and
physic."
