In this state Frank Churchill had found her, she trembling and
conditioning, they loud and insolent. By a most fortunate chance
his leaving Highbury had been delayed so as to bring him to her
assistance at this critical moment. The pleasantness of the morning
had induced him to walk forward, and leave his horses to meet him
by another road, a mile or two beyond Highbury— and happening to
have borrowed a pair of scissors the night before of Miss Bates,
and to have forgotten to restore them, he had been obliged to stop
at her door, and go in for a few minutes: he was therefore later
than he had intended; and being on foot, was unseen by the whole
party till almost close to them. The terror which the woman and boy
had been creating in Harriet was then their own portion. He had
left them completely frightened; and Harriet eagerly clinging to
him, and hardly able to speak, had just strength enough to reach
Hartfield, before her spirits were quite overcome. It was his idea
to bring her to Hartfield: he had thought of no other place.

This was the amount of the whole story,—of his communication and
of Harriet's as soon as she had recovered her senses and speech.—
He dared not stay longer than to see her well; these several delays
left him not another minute to lose; and Emma engaging to give
assurance of her safety to Mrs. Goddard, and notice of there being
such a set of people in the neighbourhood to Mr. Knightley, he set
off, with all the grateful blessings that she could utter for her
friend and herself.

Such an adventure as this,—a fine young man and a lovely young
woman thrown together in such a way, could hardly fail of
suggesting certain ideas to the coldest heart and the steadiest
brain. So Emma thought, at least. Could a linguist, could a
grammarian, could even a mathematician have seen what she did, have
witnessed their appearance together, and heard their history of it,
without feeling that circumstances had been at work to make them
peculiarly interesting to each other?—How much more must an
imaginist, like herself, be on fire with speculation and
foresight!—especially with such a groundwork of anticipation as her
mind had already made.

It was a very extraordinary thing! Nothing of the sort had ever
occurred before to any young ladies in the place, within her
memory; no rencontre, no alarm of the kind;—and now it had happened
to the very person, and at the very hour, when the other very
person was chancing to pass by to rescue her!—It certainly was very
extraordinary!—And knowing, as she did, the favourable state of
mind of each at this period, it struck her the more. He was wishing
to get the better of his attachment to herself, she just recovering
from her mania for Mr. Elton. It seemed as if every thing united to
promise the most interesting consequences. It was not possible that
the occurrence should not be strongly recommending each to the
other.

In the few minutes' conversation which she had yet had with him,
while Harriet had been partially insensible, he had spoken of her
terror, her naivete, her fervour as she seized and clung to his
arm, with a sensibility amused and delighted; and just at last,
after Harriet's own account had been given, he had expressed his
indignation at the abominable folly of Miss Bickerton in the
warmest terms. Every thing was to take its natural course, however,
neither impelled nor assisted. She would not stir a step, nor drop
a hint. No, she had had enough of interference. There could be no
harm in a scheme, a mere passive scheme. It was no more than a
wish. Beyond it she would on no account proceed.

Emma's first resolution was to keep her father from the
knowledge of what had passed,—aware of the anxiety and alarm it
would occasion: but she soon felt that concealment must be
impossible. Within half an hour it was known all over Highbury. It
was the very event to engage those who talk most, the young and the
low; and all the youth and servants in the place were soon in the
happiness of frightful news. The last night's ball seemed lost in
the gipsies. Poor Mr. Woodhouse trembled as he sat, and, as Emma
had foreseen, would scarcely be satisfied without their promising
never to go beyond the shrubbery again. It was some comfort to him
that many inquiries after himself and Miss Woodhouse (for his
neighbours knew that he loved to be inquired after), as well as
Miss Smith, were coming in during the rest of the day; and he had
the pleasure of returning for answer, that they were all very
indifferent— which, though not exactly true, for she was perfectly
well, and Harriet not much otherwise, Emma would not interfere
with. She had an unhappy state of health in general for the child
of such a man, for she hardly knew what indisposition was; and if
he did not invent illnesses for her, she could make no figure in a
message.

The gipsies did not wait for the operations of justice; they
took themselves off in a hurry. The young ladies of Highbury might
have walked again in safety before their panic began, and the whole
history dwindled soon into a matter of little importance but to
Emma and her nephews:—in her imagination it maintained its ground,
and Henry and John were still asking every day for the story of
Harriet and the gipsies, and still tenaciously setting her right if
she varied in the slightest particular from the original
recital.




