"Her friends must all be sorry to lose her; and will not Colonel
and Mrs. Campbell be sorry to find that she has engaged herself
before their return?"

"Yes; Jane says she is sure they will; but yet, this is such a
situation as she cannot feel herself justified in declining. I was
so astonished when she first told me what she had been saying to
Mrs. Elton, and when Mrs. Elton at the same moment came
congratulating me upon it! It was before tea—stay—no, it could not
be before tea, because we were just going to cards—and yet it was
before tea, because I remember thinking—Oh! no, now I recollect,
now I have it; something happened before tea, but not that. Mr.
Elton was called out of the room before tea, old John Abdy's son
wanted to speak with him. Poor old John, I have a great regard for
him; he was clerk to my poor father twenty-seven years; and now,
poor old man, he is bed-ridden, and very poorly with the rheumatic
gout in his joints— I must go and see him to-day; and so will Jane,
I am sure, if she gets out at all. And poor John's son came to talk
to Mr. Elton about relief from the parish; he is very well to do
himself, you know, being head man at the Crown, ostler, and every
thing of that sort, but still he cannot keep his father without
some help; and so, when Mr. Elton came back, he told us what John
ostler had been telling him, and then it came out about the chaise
having been sent to Randalls to take Mr. Frank Churchill to
Richmond. That was what happened before tea. It was after tea that
Jane spoke to Mrs. Elton."

Miss Bates would hardly give Emma time to say how perfectly new
this circumstance was to her; but as without supposing it possible
that she could be ignorant of any of the particulars of Mr. Frank
Churchill's going, she proceeded to give them all, it was of no
consequence.

What Mr. Elton had learned from the ostler on the subject, being
the accumulation of the ostler's own knowledge, and the knowledge
of the servants at Randalls, was, that a messenger had come over
from Richmond soon after the return of the party from Box Hill—
which messenger, however, had been no more than was expected; and
that Mr. Churchill had sent his nephew a few lines, containing,
upon the whole, a tolerable account of Mrs. Churchill, and only
wishing him not to delay coming back beyond the next morning early;
but that Mr. Frank Churchill having resolved to go home directly,
without waiting at all, and his horse seeming to have got a cold,
Tom had been sent off immediately for the Crown chaise, and the
ostler had stood out and seen it pass by, the boy going a good
pace, and driving very steady.

There was nothing in all this either to astonish or interest,
and it caught Emma's attention only as it united with the subject
which already engaged her mind. The contrast between Mrs.
Churchill's importance in the world, and Jane Fairfax's, struck
her; one was every thing, the other nothing—and she sat musing on
the difference of woman's destiny, and quite unconscious on what
her eyes were fixed, till roused by Miss Bates's saying,

"Aye, I see what you are thinking of, the pianoforte. What is to
become of that?—Very true. Poor dear Jane was talking of it just
now.— `You must go,' said she. `You and I must part. You will have
no business here.—Let it stay, however,' said she; `give it
houseroom till Colonel Campbell comes back. I shall talk about it
to him; he will settle for me; he will help me out of all my
difficulties.'— And to this day, I do believe, she knows not
whether it was his present or his daughter's."

Now Emma was obliged to think of the pianoforte; and the
remembrance of all her former fanciful and unfair conjectures was
so little pleasing, that she soon allowed herself to believe her
visit had been long enough; and, with a repetition of every thing
that she could venture to say of the good wishes which she really
felt, took leave.




