


Chapter

6

&#160;


Emma could not feel a doubt of having given Harriet's fancy a
proper direction and raised the gratitude of her young vanity to a
very good purpose, for she found her decidedly more sensible than
before of Mr. Elton's being a remarkably handsome man, with most
agreeable manners; and as she had no hesitation in following up the
assurance of his admiration by agreeable hints, she was soon pretty
confident of creating as much liking on Harriet's side, as there
could be any occasion for. She was quite convinced of Mr. Elton's
being in the fairest way of falling in love, if not in love
already. She had no scruple with regard to him. He talked of
Harriet, and praised her so warmly, that she could not suppose any
thing wanting which a little time would not add. His perception of
the striking improvement of Harriet's manner, since her
introduction at Hartfield, was not one of the least agreeable
proofs of his growing attachment.

"You have given Miss Smith all that she required," said he; "you
have made her graceful and easy. She was a beautiful creature when
she came to you, but, in my opinion, the attractions you have added
are infinitely superior to what she received from nature."

"I am glad you think I have been useful to her; but Harriet only
wanted drawing out, and receiving a few, very few hints. She had
all the natural grace of sweetness of temper and artlessness in
herself. I have done very little."

"If it were admissible to contradict a lady," said the gallant
Mr. Eltonâ€”

"I have perhaps given her a little more decision of character,
have taught her to think on points which had not fallen in her way
before."

"Exactly so; that is what principally strikes me. So much
superadded decision of character! Skilful has been the hand!"

