


Chapter

11

&#160;


Mr. Elton must now be left to himself. It was no longer in
Emma's power to superintend his happiness or quicken his measures.
The coming of her sister's family was so very near at hand, that
first in anticipation, and then in reality, it became henceforth
her prime object of interest; and during the ten days of their stay
at Hartfield it was not to be expected—she did not herself expect—
that any thing beyond occasional, fortuitous assistance could be
afforded by her to the lovers. They might advance rapidly if they
would, however; they must advance somehow or other whether they
would or no. She hardly wished to have more leisure for them. There
are people, who the more you do for them, the less they will do for
themselves.

Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley, from having been longer than usual
absent from Surry, were exciting of course rather more than the
usual interest. Till this year, every long vacation since their
marriage had been divided between Hartfield and Donwell Abbey; but
all the holidays of this autumn had been given to sea-bathing for
the children, and it was therefore many months since they had been
seen in a regular way by their Surry connexions, or seen at all by
Mr. Woodhouse, who could not be induced to get so far as London,
even for poor Isabella's sake; and who consequently was now most
nervously and apprehensively happy in forestalling this too short
visit.

He thought much of the evils of the journey for her, and not a
little of the fatigues of his own horses and coachman who were to
bring some of the party the last half of the way; but his alarms
were needless; the sixteen miles being happily accomplished, and
Mr. and Mrs. John Knightley, their five children, and a competent
number of nursery-maids, all reaching Hartfield in safety. The
bustle and joy of such an arrival, the many to be talked to,
welcomed, encouraged, and variously dispersed and disposed of,
produced a noise and confusion which his nerves could not have
borne under any other cause, nor have endured much longer even for
this; but the ways of Hartfield and the feelings of her father were
so respected by Mrs. John Knightley, that in spite of maternal
solicitude for the immediate enjoyment of her little ones, and for
their having instantly all the liberty and attendance, all the
eating and drinking, and sleeping and playing, which they could
possibly wish for, without the smallest delay, the children were
never allowed to be long a disturbance to him, either in themselves
or in any restless attendance on them.

Mrs. John Knightley was a pretty, elegant little woman, of
gentle, quiet manners, and a disposition remarkably amiable and
affectionate; wrapt up in her family; a devoted wife, a doating
mother, and so tenderly attached to her father and sister that, but
for these higher ties, a warmer love might have seemed impossible.
She could never see a fault in any of them. She was not a woman of
strong understanding or any quickness; and with this resemblance of
her father, she inherited also much of his constitution; was
delicate in her own health, over-careful of that of her children,
had many fears and many nerves, and was as fond of her own Mr.
Wingfield in town as her father could be of Mr. Perry. They were
alike too, in a general benevolence of temper, and a strong habit
of regard for every old acquaintance.

Mr. John Knightley was a tall, gentleman-like, and very clever
man; rising in his profession, domestic, and respectable in his
private character; but with reserved manners which prevented his
being generally pleasing; and capable of being sometimes out of
humour. He was not an ill-tempered man, not so often unreasonably
cross as to deserve such a reproach; but his temper was not his
great perfection; and, indeed, with such a worshipping wife, it was
hardly possible that any natural defects in it should not be
increased. The extreme sweetness of her temper must hurt his. He
had all the clearness and quickness of mind which she wanted, and
he could sometimes act an ungracious, or say a severe thing.

He was not a great favourite with his fair sister-in-law.
Nothing wrong in him escaped her. She was quick in feeling the
little injuries to Isabella, which Isabella never felt herself.
Perhaps she might have passed over more had his manners been
flattering to Isabella's sister, but they were only those of a
calmly kind brother and friend, without praise and without
blindness; but hardly any degree of personal compliment could have
made her regardless of that greatest fault of all in her eyes which
he sometimes fell into, the want of respectful forbearance towards
her father. There he had not always the patience that could have
been wished. Mr. Woodhouse's peculiarities and fidgetiness were
sometimes provoking him to a rational remonstrance or sharp retort
equally ill-bestowed. It did not often happen; for Mr. John
Knightley had really a great regard for his father-in-law, and
generally a strong sense of what was due to him; but it was too
often for Emma's charity, especially as there was all the pain of
apprehension frequently to be endured, though the offence came not.
The beginning, however, of every visit displayed none but the
properest feelings, and this being of necessity so short might be
hoped to pass away in unsullied cordiality. They had not been long
seated and composed when Mr. Woodhouse, with a melancholy shake of
the head and a sigh, called his daughter's attention to the sad
change at Hartfield since she had been there last.

