
"Who art thou?"

"I am the King," came the answer, with placid simplicity.

"Welcome, King!" cried the hermit, with enthusiasm. &#160;Then,
bustling about with feverish activity, and constantly saying,
"Welcome, welcome," he arranged his bench, seated the King on it,
by the hearth, threw some faggots on the fire, and finally fell to
pacing the floor with a nervous stride.

"Welcome! &#160;Many have sought sanctuary here, but they were
not worthy, and were turned away. &#160;But a King who casts his
crown away, and despises the vain splendours of his office, and
clothes his body in rags, to devote his life to holiness and the
mortification of the flesh—he is worthy, he is welcome!—here shall
he abide all his days till death come." &#160;The King hastened to
interrupt and explain, but the hermit paid no attention to him—did
not even hear him, apparently, but went right on with his talk,
with a raised voice and a growing energy. &#160;"And thou shalt be
at peace here. &#160;None shall find out thy refuge to disquiet
thee with supplications to return to that empty and foolish life
which God hath moved thee to abandon. &#160;Thou shalt pray here;
thou shalt study the Book; thou shalt meditate upon the follies and
delusions of this world, and upon the sublimities of the world to
come; thou shalt feed upon crusts and herbs, and scourge thy body
with whips, daily, to the purifying of thy soul. Thou shalt wear a
hair shirt next thy skin; thou shalt drink water only; and thou
shalt be at peace; yes, wholly at peace; for whoso comes to seek
thee shall go his way again, baffled; he shall not find thee, he
shall not molest thee."

The old man, still pacing back and forth, ceased to speak aloud,
and began to mutter. &#160;The King seized this opportunity to
state his case; and he did it with an eloquence inspired by
uneasiness and apprehension. &#160;But the hermit went on
muttering, and gave no heed. &#160;And still muttering, he
approached the King and said impressively—

"'Sh! &#160;I will tell you a secret!" &#160;He bent down to
impart it, but checked himself, and assumed a listening attitude.
&#160;After a moment or two he went on tiptoe to the
window-opening, put his head out, and peered around in the
gloaming, then came tiptoeing back again, put his face close down
to the King's, and whispered—

"I am an archangel!"

The King started violently, and said to himself, "Would God I
were with the outlaws again; for lo, now am I the prisoner of a
madman!" &#160;His apprehensions were heightened, and they showed
plainly in his face. &#160;In a low excited voice the hermit
continued—

"I see you feel my atmosphere! &#160;There's awe in your face!
&#160;None may be in this atmosphere and not be thus affected; for
it is the very atmosphere of heaven. &#160;I go thither and return,
in the twinkling of an eye. &#160;I was made an archangel on this
very spot, it is five years ago, by angels sent from heaven to
confer that awful dignity. &#160;Their presence filled this place
with an intolerable brightness. &#160;And they knelt to me, King!
yes, they knelt to me! for I was greater than they. &#160;I have
walked in the courts of heaven, and held speech with the
patriarchs. &#160;Touch my hand—be not afraid—touch it.
&#160;There—now thou hast touched a hand which has been clasped by
Abraham and Isaac and Jacob! &#160;For I have walked in the golden
courts; I have seen the Deity face to face!" &#160;He paused, to
give this speech effect; then his face suddenly changed, and he
started to his feet again saying, with angry energy, "Yes, I am an
archangel; A MERE ARCHANGEL!—I that might have been pope! &#160;It
is verily true. &#160;I was told it from heaven in a dream, twenty
years ago; ah, yes, I was to be pope!—and I SHOULD have been pope,
for Heaven had said it—but the King dissolved my religious house,
and I, poor obscure unfriended monk, was cast homeless upon the
world, robbed of my mighty destiny!" Here he began to mumble again,
and beat his forehead in futile rage, with his fist; now and then
articulating a venomous curse, and now and then a pathetic
"Wherefore I am nought but an archangel—I that should have been
pope!"

So he went on, for an hour, whilst the poor little King sat and
suffered. Then all at once the old man's frenzy departed, and he
became all gentleness. &#160;His voice softened, he came down out
of his clouds, and fell to prattling along so simply and so
humanly, that he soon won the King's heart completely. &#160;The
old devotee moved the boy nearer to the fire and made him
comfortable; doctored his small bruises and abrasions with a deft
and tender hand; and then set about preparing and cooking a
supper—chatting pleasantly all the time, and occasionally stroking
the lad's cheek or patting his head, in such a gently caressing way
that in a little while all the fear and repulsion inspired by the
archangel were changed to reverence and affection for the man.

