


Chapter

24
The escape


The short winter day was nearly ended. &#160;The streets were
deserted, save for a few random stragglers, and these hurried
straight along, with the intent look of people who were only
anxious to accomplish their errands as quickly as possible, and
then snugly house themselves from the rising wind and the gathering
twilight. They looked neither to the right nor to the left; they
paid no attention to our party, they did not even seem to see them.
Edward the Sixth wondered if the spectacle of a king on his way to
jail had ever encountered such marvellous indifference before.
By-and-by the constable arrived at a deserted market-square, and
proceeded to cross it. &#160;When he had reached the middle of it,
Hendon laid his hand upon his arm, and said in a low voice—

"Bide a moment, good sir, there is none in hearing, and I would
say a word to thee."

"My duty forbids it, sir; prithee hinder me not, the night comes
on."

"Stay, nevertheless, for the matter concerns thee nearly.
&#160;Turn thy back a moment and seem not to see: &#160;LET THIS
POOR LAD ESCAPE."

"This to me, sir! &#160;I arrest thee in—"

"Nay, be not too hasty. &#160;See thou be careful and commit no
foolish error,"—then he shut his voice down to a whisper, and said
in the man's ear—"the pig thou hast purchased for eightpence may
cost thee thy neck, man!"

The poor constable, taken by surprise, was speechless, at first,
then found his tongue and fell to blustering and threatening; but
Hendon was tranquil, and waited with patience till his breath was
spent; then said—
