
The King was seized. &#160;He did not even struggle, so
paralysed was he with the mere thought of the monstrous outrage
that was proposed to be inflicted upon his sacred person.
&#160;History was already defiled with the record of the scourging
of an English king with whips—it was an intolerable reflection that
he must furnish a duplicate of that shameful page. &#160;He was in
the toils, there was no help for him; he must either take this
punishment or beg for its remission. &#160;Hard conditions; he
would take the stripes—a king might do that, but a king could not
beg.

But meantime, Miles Hendon was resolving the difficulty.
&#160;"Let the child go," said he; "ye heartless dogs, do ye not
see how young and frail he is? &#160;Let him go—I will take his
lashes."

"Marry, a good thought—and thanks for it," said Sir Hugh, his
face lighting with a sardonic satisfaction. &#160;"Let the little
beggar go, and give this fellow a dozen in his place—an honest
dozen, well laid on." The King was in the act of entering a fierce
protest, but Sir Hugh silenced him with the potent remark, "Yes,
speak up, do, and free thy mind—only, mark ye, that for each word
you utter he shall get six strokes the more."

Hendon was removed from the stocks, and his back laid bare; and
whilst the lash was applied the poor little King turned away his
face and allowed unroyal tears to channel his cheeks unchecked.
"Ah, brave good heart," he said to himself, "this loyal deed shall
never perish out of my memory. &#160;I will not forget it—and
neither shall THEY!" he added, with passion. &#160;Whilst he mused,
his appreciation of Hendon's magnanimous conduct grew to greater
and still greater dimensions in his mind, and so also did his
gratefulness for it. &#160;Presently he said to himself, "Who saves
his prince from wounds and possible death—and this he did for
me—performs high service; but it is little—it is nothing—oh, less
than nothing!—when 'tis weighed against the act of him who saves
his prince from SHAME!"

Hendon made no outcry under the scourge, but bore the heavy
blows with soldierly fortitude. &#160;This, together with his
redeeming the boy by taking his stripes for him, compelled the
respect of even that forlorn and degraded mob that was gathered
there; and its gibes and hootings died away, and no sound remained
but the sound of the falling blows. &#160;The stillness that
pervaded the place, when Hendon found himself once more in the
stocks, was in strong contrast with the insulting clamour which had
prevailed there so little a while before. &#160;The King came
softly to Hendon's side, and whispered in his ear—

"Kings cannot ennoble thee, thou good, great soul, for One who
is higher than kings hath done that for thee; but a king can
confirm thy nobility to men." &#160;He picked up the scourge from
the ground, touched Hendon's bleeding shoulders lightly with it,
and whispered, "Edward of England dubs thee Earl!"

Hendon was touched. &#160;The water welled to his eyes, yet at
the same time the grisly humour of the situation and circumstances
so undermined his gravity that it was all he could do to keep some
sign of his inward mirth from showing outside. &#160;To be suddenly
hoisted, naked and gory, from the common stocks to the Alpine
altitude and splendour of an Earldom, seemed to him the last
possibility in the line of the grotesque. &#160;He said to himself,
"Now am I finely tinselled, indeed! &#160;The spectre-knight of the
Kingdom of Dreams and Shadows is become a spectre-earl—a dizzy
flight for a callow wing! &#160;An' this go on, I shall presently
be hung like a very maypole with fantastic gauds and make-believe
honours. &#160;But I shall value them, all valueless as they are,
for the love that doth bestow them. Better these poor mock
dignities of mine, that come unasked, from a clean hand and a right
spirit, than real ones bought by servility from grudging and
interested power."

The dreaded Sir Hugh wheeled his horse about, and as he spurred
away, the living wall divided silently to let him pass, and as
silently closed together again. &#160;And so remained; nobody went
so far as to venture a remark in favour of the prisoner, or in
compliment to him; but no matter—the absence of abuse was a
sufficient homage in itself. &#160;A late comer who was not posted
as to the present circumstances, and who delivered a sneer at the
'impostor,' and was in the act of following it with a dead cat, was
promptly knocked down and kicked out, without any words, and then
the deep quiet resumed sway once more.




