


Chapter

31
The Recognition procession


When Tom Canty awoke the next morning, the air was heavy with a
thunderous murmur: &#160;all the distances were charged with it.
&#160;It was music to him; for it meant that the English world was
out in its strength to give loyal welcome to the great day.

Presently Tom found himself once more the chief figure in a
wonderful floating pageant on the Thames; for by ancient custom the
'recognition procession' through London must start from the Tower,
and he was bound thither.

When he arrived there, the sides of the venerable fortress
seemed suddenly rent in a thousand places, and from every rent
leaped a red tongue of flame and a white gush of smoke; a deafening
explosion followed, which drowned the shoutings of the multitude,
and made the ground tremble; the flame-jets, the smoke, and the
explosions, were repeated over and over again with marvellous
celerity, so that in a few moments the old Tower disappeared in the
vast fog of its own smoke, all but the very top of the tall pile
called the White Tower; this, with its banners, stood out above the
dense bank of vapour as a mountain-peak projects above a
cloud-rack.

Tom Canty, splendidly arrayed, mounted a prancing war-steed,
whose rich trappings almost reached to the ground; his 'uncle,' the
Lord Protector Somerset, similarly mounted, took place in his rear;
the King's Guard formed in single ranks on either side, clad in
burnished armour; after the Protector followed a seemingly
interminable procession of resplendent nobles attended by their
vassals; after these came the lord mayor and the aldermanic body,
in crimson velvet robes, and with their gold chains across their
breasts; and after these the officers and members of all the guilds
of London, in rich raiment, and bearing the showy banners of the
several corporations. &#160;Also in the procession, as a special
guard of honour through the city, was the Ancient and Honourable
Artillery Company—an organisation already three hundred years old
at that time, and the only military body in England possessing the
privilege (which it still possesses in our day) of holding itself
independent of the commands of Parliament. &#160;It was a brilliant
spectacle, and was hailed with acclamations all along the line, as
it took its stately way through the packed multitudes of citizens.
The chronicler says, 'The King, as he entered the city, was
received by the people with prayers, welcomings, cries, and tender
words, and all signs which argue an earnest love of subjects toward
their sovereign; and the King, by holding up his glad countenance
to such as stood afar off, and most tender language to those that
stood nigh his Grace, showed himself no less thankful to receive
the people's goodwill than they to offer it. &#160;To all that
wished him well, he gave thanks. &#160;To such as bade "God save
his Grace," he said in return, "God save you all!" and added that
"he thanked them with all his heart." Wonderfully transported were
the people with the loving answers and gestures of their King.'

In Fenchurch Street a 'fair child, in costly apparel,' stood on
a stage to welcome his Majesty to the city. &#160;The last verse of
his greeting was in these words—

&#160;


