
The tide was turning very fast now, very fast indeed—but in the
wrong direction; it was leaving poor Tom Canty stranded on the
throne, and sweeping the other out to sea. &#160;The Lord Protector
communed with himself—shook his head—the thought forced itself upon
him, "It is perilous to the State and to us all, to entertain so
fateful a riddle as this; it could divide the nation and undermine
the throne." &#160;He turned and said—

"Sir Thomas, arrest this—No, hold!" &#160;His face lighted, and
he confronted the ragged candidate with this question—

"Where lieth the Great Seal? &#160;Answer me this truly, and the
riddle is unriddled; for only he that was Prince of Wales CAN so
answer! On so trivial a thing hang a throne and a dynasty!"

It was a lucky thought, a happy thought. &#160;That it was so
considered by the great officials was manifested by the silent
applause that shot from eye to eye around their circle in the form
of bright approving glances. Yes, none but the true prince could
dissolve the stubborn mystery of the vanished Great Seal—this
forlorn little impostor had been taught his lesson well, but here
his teachings must fail, for his teacher himself could not answer
THAT question—ah, very good, very good indeed; now we shall be rid
of this troublesome and perilous business in short order! And so
they nodded invisibly and smiled inwardly with satisfaction, and
looked to see this foolish lad stricken with a palsy of guilty
confusion. How surprised they were, then, to see nothing of the
sort happen—how they marvelled to hear him answer up promptly, in a
confident and untroubled voice, and say—

"There is nought in this riddle that is difficult." &#160;Then,
without so much as a by-your-leave to anybody, he turned and gave
this command, with the easy manner of one accustomed to doing such
things: "My Lord St. John, go you to my private cabinet in the
palace—for none knoweth the place better than you—and, close down
to the floor, in the left corner remotest from the door that opens
from the ante-chamber, you shall find in the wall a brazen
nail-head; press upon it and a little jewel-closet will fly open
which not even you do know of—no, nor any soul else in all the
world but me and the trusty artisan that did contrive it for me.
The first thing that falleth under your eye will be the Great
Seal—fetch it hither."

All the company wondered at this speech, and wondered still more
to see the little mendicant pick out this peer without hesitancy or
apparent fear of mistake, and call him by name with such a placidly
convincing air of having known him all his life. &#160;The peer was
almost surprised into obeying. &#160;He even made a movement as if
to go, but quickly recovered his tranquil attitude and confessed
his blunder with a blush. &#160;Tom Canty turned upon him and said,
sharply—

"Why dost thou hesitate? &#160;Hast not heard the King's
command? &#160;Go!"

The Lord St. John made a deep obeisance—and it was observed that
it was a significantly cautious and non-committal one, it not being
delivered at either of the kings, but at the neutral ground about
half-way between the two—and took his leave.

Now began a movement of the gorgeous particles of that official
group which was slow, scarcely perceptible, and yet steady and
persistent—a movement such as is observed in a kaleidoscope that is
turned slowly, whereby the components of one splendid cluster fall
away and join themselves to another—a movement which, little by
little, in the present case, dissolved the glittering crowd that
stood about Tom Canty and clustered it together again in the
neighbourhood of the new-comer. &#160;Tom Canty stood almost alone.
Now ensued a brief season of deep suspense and waiting—during which
even the few faint hearts still remaining near Tom Canty gradually
scraped together courage enough to glide, one by one, over to the
majority. &#160;So at last Tom Canty, in his royal robes and
jewels, stood wholly alone and isolated from the world, a
conspicuous figure, occupying an eloquent vacancy.

Now the Lord St. John was seen returning. &#160;As he advanced
up the mid-aisle the interest was so intense that the low murmur of
conversation in the great assemblage died out and was succeeded by
a profound hush, a breathless stillness, through which his
footfalls pulsed with a dull and distant sound. &#160;Every eye was
fastened upon him as he moved along. &#160;He reached the platform,
paused a moment, then moved toward Tom Canty with a deep obeisance,
and said—

