"Sire, the Seal is not there!"

A mob does not melt away from the presence of a plague-patient
with more haste than the band of pallid and terrified courtiers
melted away from the presence of the shabby little claimant of the
Crown. &#160;In a moment he stood all alone, without friend or
supporter, a target upon which was concentrated a bitter fire of
scornful and angry looks. &#160;The Lord Protector called out
fiercely—

"Cast the beggar into the street, and scourge him through the
town—the paltry knave is worth no more consideration!"

Officers of the guard sprang forward to obey, but Tom Canty
waved them off and said—

"Back! &#160;Whoso touches him perils his life!"

The Lord Protector was perplexed in the last degree. &#160;He
said to the Lord St. John—

"Searched you well?—but it boots not to ask that. &#160;It doth
seem passing strange. &#160;Little things, trifles, slip out of
one's ken, and one does not think it matter for surprise; but how
so bulky a thing as the Seal of England can vanish away and no man
be able to get track of it again—a massy golden disk—"

Tom Canty, with beaming eyes, sprang forward and shouted—

"Hold, that is enough! &#160;Was it round?—and thick?—and had it
letters and devices graved upon it?—yes? &#160;Oh, NOW I know what
this Great Seal is that there's been such worry and pother about.
An' ye had described it to me, ye could have had it three weeks
ago. &#160;Right well I know where it lies; but it was not I that
put it there—first."

"Who, then, my liege?" asked the Lord Protector.

"He that stands there—the rightful King of England. &#160;And he
shall tell you himself where it lies—then you will believe he knew
it of his own knowledge. &#160;Bethink thee, my King—spur thy
memory—it was the last, the very LAST thing thou didst that day
before thou didst rush forth from the palace, clothed in my rags,
to punish the soldier that insulted me."
