


Chapter

33
Edward as King


Miles Hendon was picturesque enough before he got into the riot
on London Bridge—he was more so when he got out of it. &#160;He had
but little money when he got in, none at all when he got out.
&#160;The pickpockets had stripped him of his last farthing.

But no matter, so he found his boy. &#160;Being a soldier, he
did not go at his task in a random way, but set to work, first of
all, to arrange his campaign.

What would the boy naturally do? &#160;Where would he naturally
go? Well—argued Miles—he would naturally go to his former haunts,
for that is the instinct of unsound minds, when homeless and
forsaken, as well as of sound ones. &#160;Whereabouts were his
former haunts? &#160;His rags, taken together with the low villain
who seemed to know him and who even claimed to be his father,
indicated that his home was in one or another of the poorest and
meanest districts of London. &#160;Would the search for him be
difficult, or long? &#160;No, it was likely to be easy and brief.
&#160;He would not hunt for the boy, he would hunt for a crowd; in
the centre of a big crowd or a little one, sooner or later, he
should find his poor little friend, sure; and the mangy mob would
be entertaining itself with pestering and aggravating the boy, who
would be proclaiming himself King, as usual. &#160;Then Miles
Hendon would cripple some of those people, and carry off his little
ward, and comfort and cheer him with loving words, and the two
would never be separated any more.

So Miles started on his quest. &#160;Hour after hour he tramped
through back alleys and squalid streets, seeking groups and crowds,
and finding no end of them, but never any sign of the boy.
&#160;This greatly surprised him, but did not discourage him.
&#160;To his notion, there was nothing the matter with his plan of
campaign; the only miscalculation about it was that the campaign
was becoming a lengthy one, whereas he had expected it to be
short.

When daylight arrived, at last, he had made many a mile, and
canvassed many a crowd, but the only result was that he was
tolerably tired, rather hungry and very sleepy. &#160;He wanted
some breakfast, but there was no way to get it. &#160;To beg for it
did not occur to him; as to pawning his sword, he would as soon
have thought of parting with his honour; he could spare some of his
clothes—yes, but one could as easily find a customer for a disease
as for such clothes.

At noon he was still tramping—among the rabble which followed
after the royal procession, now; for he argued that this regal
display would attract his little lunatic powerfully. &#160;He
followed the pageant through all its devious windings about London,
and all the way to Westminster and the Abbey. &#160;He drifted here
and there amongst the multitudes that were massed in the vicinity
for a weary long time, baffled and perplexed, and finally wandered
off, thinking, and trying to contrive some way to better his plan
of campaign. &#160;By-and-by, when he came to himself out of his
musings, he discovered that the town was far behind him and that
the day was growing old. &#160;He was near the river, and in the
country; it was a region of fine rural seats—not the sort of
district to welcome clothes like his.

It was not at all cold; so he stretched himself on the ground in
the lee of a hedge to rest and think. &#160;Drowsiness presently
began to settle upon his senses; the faint and far-off boom of
cannon was wafted to his ear, and he said to himself, "The new King
is crowned," and straightway fell asleep. &#160;He had not slept or
rested, before, for more than thirty hours. He did not wake again
until near the middle of the next morning.
