
"I have learned the story of these past few weeks, and am well
pleased with thee. &#160;Thou hast governed the realm with right
royal gentleness and mercy. &#160;Thou hast found thy mother and
thy sisters again? &#160;Good; they shall be cared forâ€”and thy
father shall hang, if thou desire it and the law consent.
&#160;Know, all ye that hear my voice, that from this day, they
that abide in the shelter of Christ's Hospital and share the King's
bounty shall have their minds and hearts fed, as well as their
baser parts; and this boy shall dwell there, and hold the chief
place in its honourable body of governors, during life. &#160;And
for that he hath been a king, it is meet that other than common
observance shall be his due; wherefore note this his dress of
state, for by it he shall be known, and none shall copy it; and
wheresoever he shall come, it shall remind the people that he hath
been royal, in his time, and none shall deny him his due of
reverence or fail to give him salutation. &#160;He hath the
throne's protection, he hath the crown's support, he shall be known
and called by the honourable title of the King's Ward."

The proud and happy Tom Canty rose and kissed the King's hand,
and was conducted from the presence. &#160;He did not waste any
time, but flew to his mother, to tell her and Nan and Bet all about
it and get them to help him enjoy the great news.




