


Chapter

1
The birth of the Prince and the Pauper


In the ancient city of London, on a certain autumn day in the
second quarter of the sixteenth century, a boy was born to a poor
family of the name of Canty, who did not want him. &#160;On the
same day another English child was born to a rich family of the
name of Tudor, who did want him. All England wanted him too.
&#160;England had so longed for him, and hoped for him, and prayed
God for him, that, now that he was really come, the people went
nearly mad for joy. &#160;Mere acquaintances hugged and kissed each
other and cried. Everybody took a holiday, and high and low, rich
and poor, feasted and danced and sang, and got very mellow; and
they kept this up for days and nights together. &#160;By day,
London was a sight to see, with gay banners waving from every
balcony and housetop, and splendid pageants marching along.
&#160;By night, it was again a sight to see, with its great
bonfires at every corner, and its troops of revellers making merry
around them. &#160;There was no talk in all England but of the new
baby, Edward Tudor, Prince of Wales, who lay lapped in silks and
satins, unconscious of all this fuss, and not knowing that great
lords and ladies were tending him and watching over himâ€”and not
caring, either. &#160;But there was no talk about the other baby,
Tom Canty, lapped in his poor rags, except among the family of
paupers whom he had just come to trouble with his presence.




