


Chapter

2
Tom's early life


Let us skip a number of years.

London was fifteen hundred years old, and was a great town—for
that day. It had a hundred thousand inhabitants—some think double
as many. &#160;The streets were very narrow, and crooked, and
dirty, especially in the part where Tom Canty lived, which was not
far from London Bridge. &#160;The houses were of wood, with the
second story projecting over the first, and the third sticking its
elbows out beyond the second. &#160;The higher the houses grew, the
broader they grew. &#160;They were skeletons of strong criss-cross
beams, with solid material between, coated with plaster. &#160;The
beams were painted red or blue or black, according to the owner's
taste, and this gave the houses a very picturesque look. &#160;The
windows were small, glazed with little diamond-shaped panes, and
they opened outward, on hinges, like doors.

The house which Tom's father lived in was up a foul little
pocket called Offal Court, out of Pudding Lane. &#160;It was small,
decayed, and rickety, but it was packed full of wretchedly poor
families. Canty's tribe occupied a room on the third floor.
&#160;The mother and father had a sort of bedstead in the corner;
but Tom, his grandmother, and his two sisters, Bet and Nan, were
not restricted—they had all the floor to themselves, and might
sleep where they chose. &#160;There were the remains of a blanket
or two, and some bundles of ancient and dirty straw, but these
could not rightly be called beds, for they were not organised; they
were kicked into a general pile, mornings, and selections made from
the mass at night, for service.

Bet and Nan were fifteen years old—twins. &#160;They were
good-hearted girls, unclean, clothed in rags, and profoundly
ignorant. &#160;Their mother was like them. &#160;But the father
and the grandmother were a couple of fiends. &#160;They got drunk
whenever they could; then they fought each other or anybody else
who came in the way; they cursed and swore always, drunk or sober;
John Canty was a thief, and his mother a beggar. &#160;They made
beggars of the children, but failed to make thieves of them.
&#160;Among, but not of, the dreadful rabble that inhabited the
house, was a good old priest whom the King had turned out of house
and home with a pension of a few farthings, and he used to get the
children aside and teach them right ways secretly. Father Andrew
also taught Tom a little Latin, and how to read and write; and
would have done the same with the girls, but they were afraid of
the jeers of their friends, who could not have endured such a queer
accomplishment in them.

All Offal Court was just such another hive as Canty's house.
Drunkenness, riot and brawling were the order, there, every night
and nearly all night long. &#160;Broken heads were as common as
hunger in that place. &#160;Yet little Tom was not unhappy.
&#160;He had a hard time of it, but did not know it. &#160;It was
the sort of time that all the Offal Court boys had, therefore he
supposed it was the correct and comfortable thing. &#160;When he
came home empty-handed at night, he knew his father would curse him
and thrash him first, and that when he was done the awful
grandmother would do it all over again and improve on it; and that
away in the night his starving mother would slip to him stealthily
with any miserable scrap or crust she had been able to save for him
by going hungry herself, notwithstanding she was often caught in
that sort of treason and soundly beaten for it by her husband.

No, Tom's life went along well enough, especially in summer.
&#160;He only begged just enough to save himself, for the laws
against mendicancy were stringent, and the penalties heavy; so he
put in a good deal of his time listening to good Father Andrew's
charming old tales and legends about giants and fairies, dwarfs and
genii, and enchanted castles, and gorgeous kings and princes.
&#160;His head grew to be full of these wonderful things, and many
a night as he lay in the dark on his scant and offensive straw,
tired, hungry, and smarting from a thrashing, he unleashed his
imagination and soon forgot his aches and pains in delicious
picturings to himself of the charmed life of a petted prince in a
regal palace. &#160;One desire came in time to haunt him day and
night: &#160;it was to see a real prince, with his own eyes.
&#160;He spoke of it once to some of his Offal Court comrades; but
they jeered him and scoffed him so unmercifully that he was glad to
keep his dream to himself after that.

He often read the priest's old books and got him to explain and
enlarge upon them. &#160;His dreamings and readings worked certain
changes in him, by- and-by. &#160;His dream-people were so fine
that he grew to lament his shabby clothing and his dirt, and to
wish to be clean and better clad. &#160;He went on playing in the
mud just the same, and enjoying it, too; but, instead of splashing
around in the Thames solely for the fun of it, he began to find an
added value in it because of the washings and cleansings it
afforded.
