
Tom could always find something going on around the Maypole in
Cheapside, and at the fairs; and now and then he and the rest of
London had a chance to see a military parade when some famous
unfortunate was carried prisoner to the Tower, by land or boat. One
summer's day he saw poor Anne Askew and three men burned at the
stake in Smithfield, and heard an ex- Bishop preach a sermon to
them which did not interest him. &#160;Yes, Tom's life was varied
and pleasant enough, on the whole.

By-and-by Tom's reading and dreaming about princely life wrought
such a strong effect upon him that he began to ACT the prince,
unconsciously. His speech and manners became curiously ceremonious
and courtly, to the vast admiration and amusement of his intimates.
&#160;But Tom's influence among these young people began to grow
now, day by day; and in time he came to be looked up to, by them,
with a sort of wondering awe, as a superior being. &#160;He seemed
to know so much! and he could do and say such marvellous things!
and withal, he was so deep and wise! &#160;Tom's remarks, and Tom's
performances, were reported by the boys to their elders; and these,
also, presently began to discuss Tom Canty, and to regard him as a
most gifted and extraordinary creature. &#160;Full-grown people
brought their perplexities to Tom for solution, and were often
astonished at the wit and wisdom of his decisions. &#160;In fact he
was become a hero to all who knew him except his own family—these,
only, saw nothing in him.

Privately, after a while, Tom organised a royal court! &#160;He
was the prince; his special comrades were guards, chamberlains,
equerries, lords and ladies in waiting, and the royal family.
&#160;Daily the mock prince was received with elaborate ceremonials
borrowed by Tom from his romantic readings; daily the great affairs
of the mimic kingdom were discussed in the royal council, and daily
his mimic highness issued decrees to his imaginary armies, navies,
and viceroyalties.

After which, he would go forth in his rags and beg a few
farthings, eat his poor crust, take his customary cuffs and abuse,
and then stretch himself upon his handful of foul straw, and resume
his empty grandeurs in his dreams.

And still his desire to look just once upon a real prince, in
the flesh, grew upon him, day by day, and week by week, until at
last it absorbed all other desires, and became the one passion of
his life.

One January day, on his usual begging tour, he tramped
despondently up and down the region round about Mincing Lane and
Little East Cheap, hour after hour, bare-footed and cold, looking
in at cook-shop windows and longing for the dreadful pork-pies and
other deadly inventions displayed there—for to him these were
dainties fit for the angels; that is, judging by the smell, they
were—for it had never been his good luck to own and eat one. There
was a cold drizzle of rain; the atmosphere was murky; it was a
melancholy day. &#160;At night Tom reached home so wet and tired
and hungry that it was not possible for his father and grandmother
to observe his forlorn condition and not be moved—after their
fashion; wherefore they gave him a brisk cuffing at once and sent
him to bed. &#160;For a long time his pain and hunger, and the
swearing and fighting going on in the building, kept him awake; but
at last his thoughts drifted away to far, romantic lands, and he
fell asleep in the company of jewelled and gilded princelings who
live in vast palaces, and had servants salaaming before them or
flying to execute their orders. &#160;And then, as usual, he
dreamed that HE was a princeling himself.

All night long the glories of his royal estate shone upon him;
he moved among great lords and ladies, in a blaze of light,
breathing perfumes, drinking in delicious music, and answering the
reverent obeisances of the glittering throng as it parted to make
way for him, with here a smile, and there a nod of his princely
head.

And when he awoke in the morning and looked upon the
wretchedness about him, his dream had had its usual effect—it had
intensified the sordidness of his surroundings a thousandfold.
&#160;Then came bitterness, and heart-break, and tears.




