
A mocking laugh was his answer. &#160;The King was in a rage in
a moment; he seized a billet of wood and was in the act of charging
upon the youth when another mocking laugh fell upon his ear.
&#160;It was from the lame ruffian who had been following at a
distance. The King turned and said angrily—

"Who art thou? &#160;What is thy business here?"

"Leave thy foolery," said the man, "and quiet thyself. &#160;My
disguise is none so good that thou canst pretend thou knowest not
thy father through it."

"Thou art not my father. &#160;I know thee not. &#160;I am the
King. &#160;If thou hast hid my servant, find him for me, or thou
shalt sup sorrow for what thou hast done."

John Canty replied, in a stern and measured voice—

"It is plain thou art mad, and I am loath to punish thee;
&#160;but if thou provoke me, I must. &#160;Thy prating doth no
harm here, where there are no ears that need to mind thy follies;
yet it is well to practise thy tongue to wary speech, that it may
do no hurt when our quarters change. &#160;I have done a murder,
and may not tarry at home—neither shalt thou, seeing I need thy
service. &#160;My name is changed, for wise reasons; it is
Hobbs—John Hobbs; thine is Jack—charge thy memory accordingly.
&#160;Now, then, speak. &#160;Where is thy mother? &#160;Where are
thy sisters? &#160;They came not to the place appointed—knowest
thou whither they went?"

The King answered sullenly—

"Trouble me not with these riddles. &#160;My mother is dead; my
sisters are in the palace."

The youth near by burst into a derisive laugh, and the King
would have assaulted him, but Canty—or Hobbs, as he now called
himself—prevented him, and said—

"Peace, Hugo, vex him not; his mind is astray, and thy ways fret
him. Sit thee down, Jack, and quiet thyself; thou shalt have a
morsel to eat, anon."

