
"Now don't interrupt," he would beg of her.

"I have one pound seventeen here, and two and six at the office;
I can cut off my coffee at the office, say ten shillings, making
two nine and six, with your eighteen and three makes three nine
seven, with five naught naught in my cheque-book makes eight nine
seven—who is that moving?—eight nine seven, dot and carry
seven—don't speak, my own—and the pound you lent to that man who
came to the door—quiet, child—dot and carry child—there, you've
done it!—did I say nine nine seven? yes, I said nine nine seven;
the question is, can we try it for a year on nine nine seven?"

"Of course we can, George," she cried. But she was prejudiced in
Wendy's favour, and he was really the grander character of the
two.

"Remember mumps," he warned her almost threateningly, and off he
went again. "Mumps one pound, that is what I have put down, but I
daresay it will be more like thirty shillings—don't speak—measles
one five, German measles half a guinea, makes two fifteen six—don't
waggle your finger—whooping-cough, say fifteen shillings"—and so on
it went, and it added up differently each time; but at last Wendy
just got through, with mumps reduced to twelve six, and the two
kinds of measles treated as one.

There was the same excitement over John, and Michael had even a
narrower squeak; but both were kept, and soon, you might have seen
the three of them going in a row to Miss Fulsom's Kindergarten
school, accompanied by their nurse.

Mrs. Darling loved to have everything just so, and Mr. Darling
had a passion for being exactly like his neighbours; so, of course,
they had a nurse. As they were poor, owing to the amount of milk
the children drank, this nurse was a prim Newfoundland dog, called
Nana, who had belonged to no one in particular until the Darlings
engaged her. She had always thought children important, however,
and the Darlings had become acquainted with her in Kensington
Gardens, where she spent most of her spare time peeping into
perambulators, and was much hated by careless nursemaids, whom she
followed to their homes and complained of to their mistresses. She
proved to be quite a treasure of a nurse. How thorough she was at
bath-time, and up at any moment of the night if one of her charges
made the slightest cry. Of course her kennel was in the nursery.
She had a genius for knowing when a cough is a thing to have no
patience with and when it needs stocking around your throat. She
believed to her last day in old-fashioned remedies like rhubarb
leaf, and made sounds of contempt over all this new-fangled talk
about germs, and so on. It was a lesson in propriety to see her
escorting the children to school, walking sedately by their side
when they were well behaved, and butting them back into line if
they strayed. On John's footer [in England soccer was called
football, "footer" for short] days she never once forgot his
sweater, and she usually carried an umbrella in her mouth in case
of rain. There is a room in the basement of Miss Fulsom's school
where the nurses wait. They sat on forms, while Nana lay on the
floor, but that was the only difference. They affected to ignore
her as of an inferior social status to themselves, and she despised
their light talk. She resented visits to the nursery from Mrs.
Darling's friends, but if they did come she first whipped off
Michael's pinafore and put him into the one with blue braiding, and
smoothed out Wendy and made a dash at John's hair.

No nursery could possibly have been conducted more correctly,
and Mr. Darling knew it, yet he sometimes wondered uneasily whether
the neighbours talked.

He had his position in the city to consider.

Nana also troubled him in another way. He had sometimes a
feeling that she did not admire him. "I know she admires you
tremendously, George," Mrs. Darling would assure him, and then she
would sign to the children to be specially nice to father. Lovely
dances followed, in which the only other servant, Liza, was
sometimes allowed to join. Such a midget she looked in her long
skirt and maid's cap, though she had sworn, when engaged, that she
would never see ten again. The gaiety of those romps! And gayest of
all was Mrs. Darling, who would pirouette so wildly that all you
could see of her was the kiss, and then if you had dashed at her
you might have got it. There never was a simpler happier family
until the coming of Peter Pan.

Mrs. Darling first heard of Peter when she was tidying up her
children's minds. It is the nightly custom of every good mother
after her children are asleep to rummage in their minds and put
things straight for next morning, repacking into their proper
places the many articles that have wandered during the day. If you
could keep awake (but of course you can't) you would see your own
mother doing this, and you would find it very interesting to watch
her. It is quite like tidying up drawers. You would see her on her
knees, I expect, lingering humorously over some of your contents,
wondering where on earth you had picked this thing up, making
discoveries sweet and not so sweet, pressing this to her cheek as
if it were as nice as a kitten, and hurriedly stowing that out of
sight. When you wake in the morning, the naughtiness and evil
passions with which you went to bed have been folded up small and
placed at the bottom of your mind and on the top, beautifully
aired, are spread out your prettier thoughts, ready for you to put
on.

