
The redskins disappear as they have come like shadows, and soon
their place is taken by the beasts, a great and motley procession:
lions, tigers, bears, and the innumerable smaller savage things
that flee from them, for every kind of beast, and, more
particularly, all the man-eaters, live cheek by jowl on the
favoured island. Their tongues are hanging out, they are hungry
to-night.

When they have passed, comes the last figure of all, a gigantic
crocodile. We shall see for whom she is looking presently.

The crocodile passes, but soon the boys appear again, for the
procession must continue indefinitely until one of the parties
stops or changes its pace. Then quickly they will be on top of each
other.

All are keeping a sharp look-out in front, but none suspects
that the danger may be creeping up from behind. This shows how real
the island was.

The first to fall out of the moving circle was the boys. They
flung themselves down on the sward [turf], close to their
underground home.

"I do wish Peter would come back," every one of them said
nervously, though in height and still more in breadth they were all
larger than their captain.

"I am the only one who is not afraid of the pirates," Slightly
said, in the tone that prevented his being a general favourite; but
perhaps some distant sound disturbed him, for he added hastily,
"but I wish he would come back, and tell us whether he has heard
anything more about Cinderella."

They talked of Cinderella, and Tootles was confident that his
mother must have been very like her.

It was only in Peter's absence that they could speak of mothers,
the subject being forbidden by him as silly.

"All I remember about my mother," Nibs told them, "is that she
often said to my father, 'Oh, how I wish I had a cheque-book of my
own!' I don't know what a cheque-book is, but I should just love to
give my mother one."

