
"Not of crocodiles," Hook corrected him, "but of that one
crocodile." He lowered his voice. "It liked my arm so much, Smee,
that it has followed me ever since, from sea to sea and from land
to land, licking its lips for the rest of me."

"In a way," said Smee, "it's sort of a compliment."

"I want no such compliments," Hook barked petulantly. "I want
Peter Pan, who first gave the brute its taste for me."

He sat down on a large mushroom, and now there was a quiver in
his voice. "Smee," he said huskily, "that crocodile would have had
me before this, but by a lucky chance it swallowed a clock which
goes tick tick inside it, and so before it can reach me I hear the
tick and bolt." He laughed, but in a hollow way.

"Some day," said Smee, "the clock will run down, and then he'll
get you."

Hook wetted his dry lips. "Ay," he said, "that's the fear that
haunts me."

Since sitting down he had felt curiously warm. "Smee," he said,
"this seat is hot." He jumped up. "Odds bobs, hammer and tongs I'm
burning."

They examined the mushroom, which was of a size and solidity
unknown on the mainland; they tried to pull it up, and it came away
at once in their hands, for it had no root. Stranger still, smoke
began at once to ascend. The pirates looked at each other. "A
chimney!" they both exclaimed.

They had indeed discovered the chimney of the home under the
ground. It was the custom of the boys to stop it with a mushroom
when enemies were in the neighbourhood.

Not only smoke came out of it. There came also children's
voices, for so safe did the boys feel in their hiding-place that
they were gaily chattering. The pirates listened grimly, and then
replaced the mushroom. They looked around them and noted the holes
in the seven trees.

