


Chapter

2
THE SHADOW


Mrs. Darling screamed, and, as if in answer to a bell, the door
opened, and Nana entered, returned from her evening out. She
growled and sprang at the boy, who leapt lightly through the
window. Again Mrs. Darling screamed, this time in distress for him,
for she thought he was killed, and she ran down into the street to
look for his little body, but it was not there; and she looked up,
and in the black night she could see nothing but what she thought
was a shooting star.

She returned to the nursery, and found Nana with something in
her mouth, which proved to be the boy's shadow. As he leapt at the
window Nana had closed it quickly, too late to catch him, but his
shadow had not had time to get out; slam went the window and
snapped it off.

You may be sure Mrs. Darling examined the shadow carefully, but
it was quite the ordinary kind.

Nana had no doubt of what was the best thing to do with this
shadow. She hung it out at the window, meaning "He is sure to come
back for it; let us put it where he can get it easily without
disturbing the children."

But unfortunately Mrs. Darling could not leave it hanging out at
the window, it looked so like the washing and lowered the whole
tone of the house. She thought of showing it to Mr. Darling, but he
was totting up winter great-coats for John and Michael, with a wet
towel around his head to keep his brain clear, and it seemed a
shame to trouble him; besides, she knew exactly what he would say:
"It all comes of having a dog for a nurse."

She decided to roll the shadow up and put it away carefully in a
drawer, until a fitting opportunity came for telling her husband.
Ah me!

The opportunity came a week later, on that never-to-be-forgotten
Friday. Of course it was a Friday.
