Many clapped.

Some didn't.

A few beasts hissed.

The clapping stopped suddenly; as if countless mothers had
rushed to their nurseries to see what on earth was happening; but
already Tink was saved. First her voice grew strong, then she
popped out of bed, then she was flashing through the room more
merry and impudent than ever. She never thought of thanking those
who believed, but she would have like to get at the ones who had
hissed.

"And now to rescue Wendy!"

The moon was riding in a cloudy heaven when Peter rose from his
tree, begirt [belted] with weapons and wearing little else, to set
out upon his perilous quest. It was not such a night as he would
have chosen. He had hoped to fly, keeping not far from the ground
so that nothing unwonted should escape his eyes; but in that fitful
light to have flown low would have meant trailing his shadow
through the trees, thus disturbing birds and acquainting a watchful
foe that he was astir.

He regretted now that he had given the birds of the island such
strange names that they are very wild and difficult of
approach.

There was no other course but to press forward in redskin
fashion, at which happily he was an adept [expert]. But in what
direction, for he could not be sure that the children had been
taken to the ship? A light fall of snow had obliterated all
footmarks; and a deathly silence pervaded the island, as if for a
space Nature stood still in horror of the recent carnage. He had
taught the children something of the forest lore that he had
himself learned from Tiger Lily and Tinker Bell, and knew that in
their dire hour they were not likely to forget it. Slightly, if he
had an opportunity, would blaze [cut a mark in] the trees, for
instance, Curly would drop seeds, and Wendy would leave her
handkerchief at some important place. The morning was needed to
search for such guidance, and he could not wait. The upper world
had called him, but would give no help.

The crocodile passed him, but not another living thing, not a
sound, not a movement; and yet he knew well that sudden death might
be at the next tree, or stalking him from behind.

He swore this terrible oath: "Hook or me this time."

Now he crawled forward like a snake, and again erect, he darted
across a space on which the moonlight played, one finger on his lip
and his dagger at the ready. He was frightfully happy.
