


Chapter

14
THE PIRATE SHIP


One green light squinting over Kidd's Creek, which is near the
mouth of the pirate river, marked where the brig, the JOLLY ROGER,
lay, low in the water; a rakish-looking [speedy-looking] craft foul
to the hull, every beam in her detestable, like ground strewn with
mangled feathers. She was the cannibal of the seas, and scarce
needed that watchful eye, for she floated immune in the horror of
her name.

She was wrapped in the blanket of night, through which no sound
from her could have reached the shore. There was little sound, and
none agreeable save the whir of the ship's sewing machine at which
Smee sat, ever industrious and obliging, the essence of the
commonplace, pathetic Smee. I know not why he was so infinitely
pathetic, unless it were because he was so pathetically unaware of
it; but even strong men had to turn hastily from looking at him,
and more than once on summer evenings he had touched the fount of
Hook's tears and made it flow. Of this, as of almost everything
else, Smee was quite unconscious.

A few of the pirates leant over the bulwarks, drinking in the
miasma [putrid mist] of the night; others sprawled by barrels over
games of dice and cards; and the exhausted four who had carried the
little house lay prone on the deck, where even in their sleep they
rolled skillfully to this side or that out of Hook's reach, lest he
should claw them mechanically in passing.

Hook trod the deck in thought. O man unfathomable. It was his
hour of triumph. Peter had been removed for ever from his path, and
all the other boys were in the brig, about to walk the plank. It
was his grimmest deed since the days when he had brought Barbecue
to heel; and knowing as we do how vain a tabernacle is man, could
we be surprised had he now paced the deck unsteadily, bellied out
by the winds of his success?

But there was no elation in his gait, which kept pace with the
action of his sombre mind. Hook was profoundly dejected.

He was often thus when communing with himself on board ship in
the quietude of the night. It was because he was so terribly alone.
This inscrutable man never felt more alone than when surrounded by
his dogs. They were socially inferior to him.

Hook was not his true name. To reveal who he really was would
even at this date set the country in a blaze; but as those who read
between the lines must already have guessed, he had been at a
famous public school; and its traditions still clung to him like
garments, with which indeed they are largely concerned. Thus it was
offensive to him even now to board a ship in the same dress in
which he grappled [attacked] her, and he still adhered in his walk
to the school's distinguished slouch. But above all he retained the
passion for good form.
