I don't know whether you have ever seen a map of a person's
mind. Doctors sometimes draw maps of other parts of you, and your
own map can become intensely interesting, but catch them trying to
draw a map of a child's mind, which is not only confused, but keeps
going round all the time. There are zigzag lines on it, just like
your temperature on a card, and these are probably roads in the
island, for the Neverland is always more or less an island, with
astonishing splashes of colour here and there, and coral reefs and
rakish-looking craft in the offing, and savages and lonely lairs,
and gnomes who are mostly tailors, and caves through which a river
runs, and princes with six elder brothers, and a hut fast going to
decay, and one very small old lady with a hooked nose. It would be
an easy map if that were all, but there is also first day at
school, religion, fathers, the round pond, needle-work, murders,
hangings, verbs that take the dative, chocolate pudding day,
getting into braces, say ninety-nine, three-pence for pulling out
your tooth yourself, and so on, and either these are part of the
island or they are another map showing through, and it is all
rather confusing, especially as nothing will stand still.

Of course the Neverlands vary a good deal. John's, for instance,
had a lagoon with flamingoes flying over it at which John was
shooting, while Michael, who was very small, had a flamingo with
lagoons flying over it. John lived in a boat turned upside down on
the sands, Michael in a wigwam, Wendy in a house of leaves deftly
sewn together. John had no friends, Michael had friends at night,
Wendy had a pet wolf forsaken by its parents, but on the whole the
Neverlands have a family resemblance, and if they stood still in a
row you could say of them that they have each other's nose, and so
forth. On these magic shores children at play are for ever beaching
their coracles [simple boat]. We too have been there; we can still
hear the sound of the surf, though we shall land no more.

Of all delectable islands the Neverland is the snuggest and most
compact, not large and sprawly, you know, with tedious distances
between one adventure and another, but nicely crammed. When you
play at it by day with the chairs and table-cloth, it is not in the
least alarming, but in the two minutes before you go to sleep it
becomes very real. That is why there are night-lights.

Occasionally in her travels through her children's minds Mrs.
Darling found things she could not understand, and of these quite
the most perplexing was the word Peter. She knew of no Peter, and
yet he was here and there in John and Michael's minds, while
Wendy's began to be scrawled all over with him. The name stood out
in bolder letters than any of the other words, and as Mrs. Darling
gazed she felt that it had an oddly cocky appearance.

"Yes, he is rather cocky," Wendy admitted with regret. Her
mother had been questioning her.

"But who is he, my pet?"

"He is Peter Pan, you know, mother."

At first Mrs. Darling did not know, but after thinking back into
her childhood she just remembered a Peter Pan who was said to live
with the fairies. There were odd stories about him, as that when
children died he went part of the way with them, so that they
should not be frightened. She had believed in him at the time, but
now that she was married and full of sense she quite doubted
whether there was any such person.

"Besides," she said to Wendy, "he would be grown up by this
time."

"Oh no, he isn't grown up," Wendy assured her confidently, "and
he is just my size." She meant that he was her size in both mind
and body; she didn't know how she knew, she just knew it.

Mrs. Darling consulted Mr. Darling, but he smiled pooh-pooh.
"Mark my words," he said, "it is some nonsense Nana has been
putting into their heads; just the sort of idea a dog would have.
Leave it alone, and it will blow over."
