


Chapter

5
THE ISLAND COME TRUE


Feeling that Peter was on his way back, the Neverland had again
woke into life. We ought to use the pluperfect and say wakened, but
woke is better and was always used by Peter.

In his absence things are usually quiet on the island. The
fairies take an hour longer in the morning, the beasts attend to
their young, the redskins feed heavily for six days and nights, and
when pirates and lost boys meet they merely bite their thumbs at
each other. But with the coming of Peter, who hates lethargy, they
are under way again: if you put your ear to the ground now, you
would hear the whole island seething with life.

On this evening the chief forces of the island were disposed as
follows. The lost boys were out looking for Peter, the pirates were
out looking for the lost boys, the redskins were out looking for
the pirates, and the beasts were out looking for the redskins. They
were going round and round the island, but they did not meet
because all were going at the same rate.

All wanted blood except the boys, who liked it as a rule, but
to-night were out to greet their captain. The boys on the island
vary, of course, in numbers, according as they get killed and so
on; and when they seem to be growing up, which is against the
rules, Peter thins them out; but at this time there were six of
them, counting the twins as two. Let us pretend to lie here among
the sugar-cane and watch them as they steal by in single file, each
with his hand on his dagger.

They are forbidden by Peter to look in the least like him, and
they wear the skins of the bears slain by themselves, in which they
are so round and furry that when they fall they roll. They have
therefore become very sure-footed.

The first to pass is Tootles, not the least brave but the most
unfortunate of all that gallant band. He had been in fewer
adventures than any of them, because the big things constantly
happened just when he had stepped round the corner; all would be
quiet, he would take the opportunity of going off to gather a few
sticks for firewood, and then when he returned the others would be
sweeping up the blood. This ill-luck had given a gentle melancholy
to his countenance, but instead of souring his nature had sweetened
it, so that he was quite the humblest of the boys. Poor kind
Tootles, there is danger in the air for you to-night. Take care
lest an adventure is now offered you, which, if accepted, will
plunge you in deepest woe. Tootles, the fairy Tink, who is bent on
mischief this night is looking for a tool [for doing her mischief],
and she thinks you are the most easily tricked of the boys. 'Ware
Tinker Bell.

Would that he could hear us, but we are not really on the
island, and he passes by, biting his knuckles.
