
When she sat down to a basketful of their stockings, every heel
with a hole in it, she would fling up her arms and exclaim, "Oh
dear, I am sure I sometimes think spinsters are to be envied!"

Her face beamed when she exclaimed this.

You remember about her pet wolf. Well, it very soon discovered
that she had come to the island and it found her out, and they just
ran into each other's arms. After that it followed her about
everywhere.

As time wore on did she think much about the beloved parents she
had left behind her? This is a difficult question, because it is
quite impossible to say how time does wear on in the Neverland,
where it is calculated by moons and suns, and there are ever so
many more of them than on the mainland. But I am afraid that Wendy
did not really worry about her father and mother; she was
absolutely confident that they would always keep the window open
for her to fly back by, and this gave her complete ease of mind.
What did disturb her at times was that John remembered his parents
vaguely only, as people he had once known, while Michael was quite
willing to believe that she was really his mother. These things
scared her a little, and nobly anxious to do her duty, she tried to
fix the old life in their minds by setting them examination papers
on it, as like as possible to the ones she used to do at school.
The other boys thought this awfully interesting, and insisted on
joining, and they made slates for themselves, and sat round the
table, writing and thinking hard about the questions she had
written on another slate and passed round. They were the most
ordinary questions—"What was the colour of Mother's eyes? Which was
taller, Father or Mother? Was Mother blonde or brunette? Answer all
three questions if possible." "(A) Write an essay of not less than
40 words on How I spent my last Holidays, or The Characters of
Father and Mother compared. Only one of these to be attempted." Or
"(1) Describe Mother's laugh; (2) Describe Father's laugh; (3)
Describe Mother's Party Dress; (4) Describe the Kennel and its
Inmate."

They were just everyday questions like these, and when you could
not answer them you were told to make a cross; and it was really
dreadful what a number of crosses even John made. Of course the
only boy who replied to every question was Slightly, and no one
could have been more hopeful of coming out first, but his answers
were perfectly ridiculous, and he really came out last: a
melancholy thing.

Peter did not compete. For one thing he despised all mothers
except Wendy, and for another he was the only boy on the island who
could neither write nor spell; not the smallest word. He was above
all that sort of thing.

By the way, the questions were all written in the past tense.
What was the colour of Mother's eyes, and so on. Wendy, you see,
had been forgetting, too.

Adventures, of course, as we shall see, were of daily
occurrence; but about this time Peter invented, with Wendy's help,
a new game that fascinated him enormously, until he suddenly had no
more interest in it, which, as you have been told, was what always
happened with his games. It consisted in pretending not to have
adventures, in doing the sort of thing John and Michael had been
doing all their lives, sitting on stools flinging balls in the air,
pushing each other, going out for walks and coming back without
having killed so much as a grizzly. To see Peter doing nothing on a
stool was a great sight; he could not help looking solemn at such
times, to sit still seemed to him such a comic thing to do. He
boasted that he had gone walking for the good of his health. For
several suns these were the most novel of all adventures to him;
and John and Michael had to pretend to be delighted also; otherwise
he would have treated them severely.

He often went out alone, and when he came back you were never
absolutely certain whether he had had an adventure or not. He might
have forgotten it so completely that he said nothing about it; and
then when you went out you found the body; and, on the other hand,
he might say a great deal about it, and yet you could not find the
body. Sometimes he came home with his head bandaged, and then Wendy
cooed over him and bathed it in lukewarm water, while he told a
dazzling tale. But she was never quite sure, you know. There were,
however, many adventures which she knew to be true because she was
in them herself, and there were still more that were at least
partly true, for the other boys were in them and said they were
wholly true. To describe them all would require a book as large as
an English-Latin, Latin-English Dictionary, and the most we can do
is to give one as a specimen of an average hour on the island. The
difficulty is which one to choose. Should we take the brush with
the redskins at Slightly Gulch? It was a sanguinary [cheerful]
affair, and especially interesting as showing one of Peter's
peculiarities, which was that in the middle of a fight he would
suddenly change sides. At the Gulch, when victory was still in the
balance, sometimes leaning this way and sometimes that, he called
out, "I'm redskin to-day; what are you, Tootles?" And Tootles
answered, "Redskin; what are you, Nibs?" and Nibs said, "Redskin;
what are you Twin?" and so on; and they were all redskins; and of
course this would have ended the fight had not the real redskins
fascinated by Peter's methods, agreed to be lost boys for that
once, and so at it they all went again, more fiercely than
ever.

The extraordinary upshot of this adventure was—but we have not
decided yet that this is the adventure we are to narrate. Perhaps a
better one would be the night attack by the redskins on the house
under the ground, when several of them stuck in the hollow trees
and had to be pulled out like corks. Or we might tell how Peter
saved Tiger Lily's life in the Mermaids' Lagoon, and so made her
his ally.

