
Not the pain of this but its unfairness was what dazed Peter. It
made him quite helpless. He could only stare, horrified. Every
child is affected thus the first time he is treated unfairly. All
he thinks he has a right to when he comes to you to be yours is
fairness. After you have been unfair to him he will love you again,
but will never afterwards be quite the same boy. No one ever gets
over the first unfairness; no one except Peter. He often met it,
but he always forgot it. I suppose that was the real difference
between him and all the rest.

So when he met it now it was like the first time; and he could
just stare, helpless. Twice the iron hand clawed him.

A few moments afterwards the other boys saw Hook in the water
striking wildly for the ship; no elation on the pestilent face now,
only white fear, for the crocodile was in dogged pursuit of him. On
ordinary occasions the boys would have swum alongside cheering; but
now they were uneasy, for they had lost both Peter and Wendy, and
were scouring the lagoon for them, calling them by name. They found
the dinghy and went home in it, shouting "Peter, Wendy" as they
went, but no answer came save mocking laughter from the mermaids.
"They must be swimming back or flying," the boys concluded. They
were not very anxious, because they had such faith in Peter. They
chuckled, boylike, because they would be late for bed; and it was
all mother Wendy's fault!

When their voices died away there came cold silence over the
lagoon, and then a feeble cry.

"Help, help!"

Two small figures were beating against the rock; the girl had
fainted and lay on the boy's arm. With a last effort Peter pulled
her up the rock and then lay down beside her. Even as he also
fainted he saw that the water was rising. He knew that they would
soon be drowned, but he could do no more.

As they lay side by side a mermaid caught Wendy by the feet, and
began pulling her softly into the water. Peter, feeling her slip
from him, woke with a start, and was just in time to draw her back.
But he had to tell her the truth.

"We are on the rock, Wendy," he said, "but it is growing
smaller. Soon the water will be over it."

She did not understand even now.

"We must go," she said, almost brightly.

