
"A diamond, sir? A precious stone. It cuts into glass as though
it were putty."

"It's more than a precious stone. It is the precious stone."

"Not the Countess of Morcar's blue carbuncle!" I ejaculated.

"Precisely so. I ought to know its size and shape, seeing that I
have read the advertisement about it in The Times every day lately.
It is absolutely unique, and its value can only be conjectured, but
the reward offered of 1000 pounds is certainly not within a
twentieth part of the market price."

"A thousand pounds! Great Lord of mercy!" The commissionaire
plumped down into a chair and stared from one to the other of
us.

"That is the reward, and I have reason to know that there are
sentimental considerations in the background which would induce the
Countess to part with half her fortune if she could but recover the
gem."

"It was lost, if I remember aright, at the Hotel Cosmopolitan,"
I remarked.

"Precisely so, on December 22nd, just five days ago. John
Horner, a plumber, was accused of having abstracted it from the
lady's jewel-case. The evidence against him was so strong that the
case has been referred to the Assizes. I have some account of the
matter here, I believe." He rummaged amid his newspapers, glancing
over the dates, until at last he smoothed one out, doubled it over,
and read the following paragraph:

"Hotel Cosmopolitan Jewel Robbery. John Horner, 26, plumber, was
brought up upon the charge of having upon the 22nd inst.,
abstracted from the jewel-case of the Countess of Morcar the
valuable gem known as the blue carbuncle. James Ryder,
upper-attendant at the hotel, gave his evidence to the effect that
he had shown Horner up to the dressing-room of the Countess of
Morcar upon the day of the robbery in order that he might solder
the second bar of the grate, which was loose. He had remained with
Horner some little time, but had finally been called away. On
returning, he found that Horner had disappeared, that the bureau
had been forced open, and that the small morocco casket in which,
as it afterwards transpired, the Countess was accustomed to keep
her jewel, was lying empty upon the dressing-table. Ryder instantly
gave the alarm, and Horner was arrested the same evening; but the
stone could not be found either upon his person or in his rooms.
Catherine Cusack, maid to the Countess, deposed to having heard
Ryder's cry of dismay on discovering the robbery, and to having
rushed into the room, where she found matters as described by the
last witness. Inspector Bradstreet, B division, gave evidence as to
the arrest of Horner, who struggled frantically, and protested his
innocence in the strongest terms. Evidence of a previous conviction
for robbery having been given against the prisoner, the magistrate
refused to deal summarily with the offence, but referred it to the
Assizes. Horner, who had shown signs of intense emotion during the
proceedings, fainted away at the conclusion and was carried out of
court."

"Hum! So much for the police-court," said Holmes thoughtfully,
tossing aside the paper. "The question for us now to solve is the
sequence of events leading from a rifled jewel-case at one end to
the crop of a goose in Tottenham Court Road at the other. You see,
Watson, our little deductions have suddenly assumed a much more
important and less innocent aspect. Here is the stone; the stone
came from the goose, and the goose came from Mr. Henry Baker, the
gentleman with the bad hat and all the other characteristics with
which I have bored you. So now we must set ourselves very seriously
to finding this gentleman and ascertaining what part he has played
in this little mystery. To do this, we must try the simplest means
first, and these lie undoubtedly in an advertisement in all the
evening papers. If this fail, I shall have recourse to other
methods."

