
"'The propriety of my leaving it. You may set your mind at rest
about that. I should not dream of doing so were it not absolutely
certain that I should be able in four days to reclaim it. It is a
pure matter of form. Is the security sufficient?'

"'Ample.'

"'You understand, Mr. Holder, that I am giving you a strong
proof of the confidence which I have in you, founded upon all that
I have heard of you. I rely upon you not only to be discreet and to
refrain from all gossip upon the matter but, above all, to preserve
this coronet with every possible precaution because I need not say
that a great public scandal would be caused if any harm were to
befall it. Any injury to it would be almost as serious as its
complete loss, for there are no beryls in the world to match these,
and it would be impossible to replace them. I leave it with you,
however, with every confidence, and I shall call for it in person
on Monday morning.'

"Seeing that my client was anxious to leave, I said no more but,
calling for my cashier, I ordered him to pay over fifty 1000 pound
notes. When I was alone once more, however, with the precious case
lying upon the table in front of me, I could not but think with
some misgivings of the immense responsibility which it entailed
upon me. There could be no doubt that, as it was a national
possession, a horrible scandal would ensue if any misfortune should
occur to it. I already regretted having ever consented to take
charge of it. However, it was too late to alter the matter now, so
I locked it up in my private safe and turned once more to my
work.

"When evening came I felt that it would be an imprudence to
leave so precious a thing in the office behind me. Bankers' safes
had been forced before now, and why should not mine be? If so, how
terrible would be the position in which I should find myself! I
determined, therefore, that for the next few days I would always
carry the case backward and forward with me, so that it might never
be really out of my reach. With this intention, I called a cab and
drove out to my house at Streatham, carrying the jewel with me. I
did not breathe freely until I had taken it upstairs and locked it
in the bureau of my dressing-room.

"And now a word as to my household, Mr. Holmes, for I wish you
to thoroughly understand the situation. My groom and my page sleep
out of the house, and may be set aside altogether. I have three
maid-servants who have been with me a number of years and whose
absolute reliability is quite above suspicion. Another, Lucy Parr,
the second waiting-maid, has only been in my service a few months.
She came with an excellent character, however, and has always given
me satisfaction. She is a very pretty girl and has attracted
admirers who have occasionally hung about the place. That is the
only drawback which we have found to her, but we believe her to be
a thoroughly good girl in every way.

"So much for the servants. My family itself is so small that it
will not take me long to describe it. I am a widower and have an
only son, Arthur. He has been a disappointment to me, Mr. Holmes—a
grievous disappointment. I have no doubt that I am myself to blame.
People tell me that I have spoiled him. Very likely I have. When my
dear wife died I felt that he was all I had to love. I could not
bear to see the smile fade even for a moment from his face. I have
never denied him a wish. Perhaps it would have been better for both
of us had I been sterner, but I meant it for the best.

"It was naturally my intention that he should succeed me in my
business, but he was not of a business turn. He was wild, wayward,
and, to speak the truth, I could not trust him in the handling of
large sums of money. When he was young he became a member of an
aristocratic club, and there, having charming manners, he was soon
the intimate of a number of men with long purses and expensive
habits. He learned to play heavily at cards and to squander money
on the turf, until he had again and again to come to me and implore
me to give him an advance upon his allowance, that he might settle
his debts of honour. He tried more than once to break away from the
dangerous company which he was keeping, but each time the influence
of his friend, Sir George Burnwell, was enough to draw him back
again.

"And, indeed, I could not wonder that such a man as Sir George
Burnwell should gain an influence over him, for he has frequently
brought him to my house, and I have found myself that I could
hardly resist the fascination of his manner. He is older than
Arthur, a man of the world to his finger-tips, one who had been
everywhere, seen everything, a brilliant talker, and a man of great
personal beauty. Yet when I think of him in cold blood, far away
from the glamour of his presence, I am convinced from his cynical
speech and the look which I have caught in his eyes that he is one
who should be deeply distrusted. So I think, and so, too, thinks my
little Mary, who has a woman's quick insight into character.

"And now there is only she to be described. She is my niece; but
when my brother died five years ago and left her alone in the world
I adopted her, and have looked upon her ever since as my daughter.
She is a sunbeam in my house—sweet, loving, beautiful, a wonderful
manager and housekeeper, yet as tender and quiet and gentle as a
woman could be. She is my right hand. I do not know what I could do
without her. In only one matter has she ever gone against my
wishes. Twice my boy has asked her to marry him, for he loves her
devotedly, but each time she has refused him. I think that if
anyone could have drawn him into the right path it would have been
she, and that his marriage might have changed his whole life; but
now, alas! it is too late—forever too late!

