
"He knows it already. When I had cleared it all up I had an
interview with him, and finding that he would not tell me the
story, I told it to him, on which he had to confess that I was
right and to add the very few details which were not yet quite
clear to me. Your news of this morning, however, may open his
lips."

"For heaven's sake, tell me, then, what is this extraordinary
mystery!"

"I will do so, and I will show you the steps by which I reached
it. And let me say to you, first, that which it is hardest for me
to say and for you to hear: there has been an understanding between
Sir George Burnwell and your niece Mary. They have now fled
together."

"My Mary? Impossible!"

"It is unfortunately more than possible; it is certain. Neither
you nor your son knew the true character of this man when you
admitted him into your family circle. He is one of the most
dangerous men in Englandâ€”a ruined gambler, an absolutely desperate
villain, a man without heart or conscience. Your niece knew nothing
of such men. When he breathed his vows to her, as he had done to a
hundred before her, she flattered herself that she alone had
touched his heart. The devil knows best what he said, but at least
she became his tool and was in the habit of seeing him nearly every
evening."

"I cannot, and I will not, believe it!" cried the banker with an
ashen face.

"I will tell you, then, what occurred in your house last night.
Your niece, when you had, as she thought, gone to your room,
slipped down and talked to her lover through the window which leads
into the stable lane. His footmarks had pressed right through the
snow, so long had he stood there. She told him of the coronet. His
wicked lust for gold kindled at the news, and he bent her to his
will. I have no doubt that she loved you, but there are women in
whom the love of a lover extinguishes all other loves, and I think
that she must have been one. She had hardly listened to his
instructions when she saw you coming downstairs, on which she
closed the window rapidly and told you about one of the servants'
escapade with her wooden-legged lover, which was all perfectly
true.

"Your boy, Arthur, went to bed after his interview with you but
he slept badly on account of his uneasiness about his club debts.
In the middle of the night he heard a soft tread pass his door, so
he rose and, looking out, was surprised to see his cousin walking
very stealthily along the passage until she disappeared into your
dressing-room. Petrified with astonishment, the lad slipped on some
clothes and waited there in the dark to see what would come of this
strange affair. Presently she emerged from the room again, and in
the light of the passage-lamp your son saw that she carried the
precious coronet in her hands. She passed down the stairs, and he,
thrilling with horror, ran along and slipped behind the curtain
near your door, whence he could see what passed in the hall
beneath. He saw her stealthily open the window, hand out the
coronet to someone in the gloom, and then closing it once more
hurry back to her room, passing quite close to where he stood hid
behind the curtain.

"As long as she was on the scene he could not take any action
without a horrible exposure of the woman whom he loved. But the
instant that she was gone he realised how crushing a misfortune
this would be for you, and how all-important it was to set it
right. He rushed down, just as he was, in his bare feet, opened the
window, sprang out into the snow, and ran down the lane, where he
could see a dark figure in the moonlight. Sir George Burnwell tried
to get away, but Arthur caught him, and there was a struggle
between them, your lad tugging at one side of the coronet, and his
opponent at the other. In the scuffle, your son struck Sir George
and cut him over the eye. Then something suddenly snapped, and your
son, finding that he had the coronet in his hands, rushed back,
closed the window, ascended to your room, and had just observed
that the coronet had been twisted in the struggle and was
endeavouring to straighten it when you appeared upon the
scene."

"Is it possible?" gasped the banker.

