"I could hardly imagine a more damning case," I remarked. "If
ever circumstantial evidence pointed to a criminal it does so
here."

"Circumstantial evidence is a very tricky thing," answered
Holmes thoughtfully. "It may seem to point very straight to one
thing, but if you shift your own point of view a little, you may
find it pointing in an equally uncompromising manner to something
entirely different. It must be confessed, however, that the case
looks exceedingly grave against the young man, and it is very
possible that he is indeed the culprit. There are several people in
the neighbourhood, however, and among them Miss Turner, the
daughter of the neighbouring landowner, who believe in his
innocence, and who have retained Lestrade, whom you may recollect
in connection with the Study in Scarlet, to work out the case in
his interest. Lestrade, being rather puzzled, has referred the case
to me, and hence it is that two middle-aged gentlemen are flying
westward at fifty miles an hour instead of quietly digesting their
breakfasts at home."

"I am afraid," said I, "that the facts are so obvious that you
will find little credit to be gained out of this case."

"There is nothing more deceptive than an obvious fact," he
answered, laughing. "Besides, we may chance to hit upon some other
obvious facts which may have been by no means obvious to Mr.
Lestrade. You know me too well to think that I am boasting when I
say that I shall either confirm or destroy his theory by means
which he is quite incapable of employing, or even of understanding.
To take the first example to hand, I very clearly perceive that in
your bedroom the window is upon the right-hand side, and yet I
question whether Mr. Lestrade would have noted even so self-evident
a thing as that."

"How on earth—"

"My dear fellow, I know you well. I know the military neatness
which characterises you. You shave every morning, and in this
season you shave by the sunlight; but since your shaving is less
and less complete as we get farther back on the left side, until it
becomes positively slovenly as we get round the angle of the jaw,
it is surely very clear that that side is less illuminated than the
other. I could not imagine a man of your habits looking at himself
in an equal light and being satisfied with such a result. I only
quote this as a trivial example of observation and inference.
Therein lies my métier, and it is just possible that it may be of
some service in the investigation which lies before us. There are
one or two minor points which were brought out in the inquest, and
which are worth considering."

"What are they?"

"It appears that his arrest did not take place at once, but
after the return to Hatherley Farm. On the inspector of
constabulary informing him that he was a prisoner, he remarked that
he was not surprised to hear it, and that it was no more than his
deserts. This observation of his had the natural effect of removing
any traces of doubt which might have remained in the minds of the
coroner's jury."

"It was a confession," I ejaculated.

"No, for it was followed by a protestation of innocence."

"Coming on the top of such a damning series of events, it was at
least a most suspicious remark."
