


Chapter

2

&#160;


On the 9th of October the bark canoe was entirely finished.
Pencroft had kept his promise, and a light boat, the shell of which
was joined together by the flexible twigs of the crejimba, had been
constructed in five days. A seat in the stern, a second seat in the
middle to preserve the equilibrium, a third seat in the bows,
rowlocks for the two oars, a scull to steer with, completed the
little craft, which was twelve feet long, and did not weigh more
than two hundred pounds. The operation of launching it was
extremely simple. The canoe was carried to the beach and laid on
the sand before Granite House, and the rising tide floated it.
Pencroft, who leaped in directly, maneuvered it with the scull and
declared it to be just the thing for the purpose to which they
wished to put it.

"Hurrah!" cried the sailor, who did not disdain to celebrate
thus his own triumph. "With this we could go round—"

"The world?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"No, the island. Some stones for ballast, a mast and a sail,
which the captain will make for us some day, and we shall go
splendidly! Well, captain—and you, Mr. Spilett; and you, Herbert;
and you, Neb—aren't you coming to try our new vessel? Come along!
we must see if it will carry all five of us!"

This was certainly a trial which ought to be made. Pencroft soon
brought the canoe to the shore by a narrow passage among the rocks,
and it was agreed that they should make a trial of the boat that
day by following the shore as far as the first point at which the
rocks of the south ended.

As they embarked, Neb cried,—

