


Chapter

5

&#160;


Cyrus Harding and his companions slept like innocent marmots in
the cave which the jaguar had so politely left at their
disposal.

At sunrise all were on the shore at the extremity of the
promontory, and their gaze was directed towards the horizon, of
which two-thirds of the circumference were visible. For the last
time the engineer could ascertain that not a sail nor the wreck of
a ship was on the sea, and even with the telescope nothing
suspicious could be discovered.

There was nothing either on the shore, at least, in the straight
line of three miles which formed the south side of the promontory,
for beyond that, rising ground had the rest of the coast, and even
from the extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula Claw Cape could not
be seen.

The southern coast of the island still remained to be explored.
Now should they undertake it immediately, and devote this day to
it?

This was not included in their first plan. In fact, when the
boat was abandoned at the sources of the Mercy, it had been agreed
that after having surveyed the west coast, they should go back to
it, and return to Granite House by the Mercy. Harding then thought
that the western coast would have offered refuge, either to a ship
in distress, or to a vessel in her regular course; but now, as he
saw that this coast presented no good anchorage, he wished to seek
on the south what they had not been able to find on the west.

Gideon Spilett proposed to continue the exploration, that the
question of the supposed wreck might be completely settled, and he
asked at what distance Claw Cape might be from the extremity of the
peninsula.

