
"What do you want to say, Neb?" asked the engineer.

"If we return by the shore to Claw Cape," replied Neb, "after
having doubled the Cape, we shall be stoppedâ€”"

"By the Mercy! of course," replied Herbert, "and we shall have
neither bridge nor boat by which to cross."

"But, captain," added Pencroft, "with a few floating trunks we
shall have no difficulty in crossing the river."

"Never mind," said Spilett, "it will be useful to construct a
bridge if we wish to have an easy access to the Far West!"

"A bridge!" cried Pencroft. "Well, is not the captain the best
engineer in his profession? He will make us a bridge when we want
one. As to transporting you this evening to the other side of the
Mercy, and that without wetting one thread of your clothes, I will
take care of that. We have provisions for another day, and besides
we can get plenty of game. Forward!"

The reporter's proposal, so strongly seconded by the sailor,
received general approbation, for each wished to have their doubts
set at rest, and by returning by Claw Cape the exploration would he
ended. But there was not an hour to lose, for forty miles was a
long march, and they could not hope to reach Granite House before
night.

At six o'clock in the morning the little band set out. As a
precaution the guns were loaded with ball, and Top, who led the
van, received orders to beat about the edge of the forest.

From the extremity of the promontory which formed the tail of
the peninsula the coast was rounded for a distance of five miles,
which was rapidly passed over, without even the most minute
investigations bringing to light the least trace of any old or
recent landings; no debris, no mark of an encampment, no cinders of
a fire, nor even a footprint!

From the point of the peninsula on which the settlers now were
their gaze could extend along the southwest. Twenty-five miles off
the coast terminated in the Claw Cape, which loomed dimly through
the morning mists, and which, by the phenomenon of the mirage,
appeared as if suspended between land and water.

