
"Here is the water, and yonder is the wood we require!" said
Pencroft. "Well, Herbert, now we only want the house."

The water of the river was limpid. The sailor ascertained that
at this time—that is to say, at low tide, when the rising floods
did not reach it —it was sweet. This important point established,
Herbert looked for some cavity which would serve them as a retreat,
but in vain; everywhere the wall appeared smooth, plain, and
perpendicular.

However, at the mouth of the watercourse and above the reach of
the high tide, the convulsions of nature had formed, not a grotto,
but a pile of enormous rocks, such as are often met with in granite
countries and which bear the name of "Chimneys."

Pencroft and Herbert penetrated quite far in among the rocks, by
sandy passages in which light was not wanting, for it entered
through the openings which were left between the blocks, of which
some were only sustained by a miracle of equilibrium; but with the
light came also air—a regular corridor-gale—and with the wind the
sharp cold from the exterior. However, the sailor thought that by
stopping-up some of the openings with a mixture of stones and sand,
the Chimneys could be rendered habitable. Their geometrical plan
represented the typographical sign "&amp;," which signifies "et
cetera" abridged, but by isolating the upper mouth of the sign,
through which the south and west winds blew so strongly, they could
succeed in making the lower part of use.

"Here's our work," said Pencroft, "and if we ever see Captain
Harding again, he will know how to make something of this
labyrinth."

"We shall see him again, Pencroft," cried Herbert, "and when be
returns he must find a tolerable dwelling here. It will be so, if
we can make a fireplace in the left passage and keep an opening for
the smoke."

"So we can, my boy," replied the sailor, "and these Chimneys
will serve our turn. Let us set to work, but first come and get a
store of fuel. I think some branches will be very useful in
stopping up these openings, through which the wind shrieks like so
many fiends."

Herbert and Pencroft left the Chimneys, and, turning the angle,
they began to climb the left bank of the river. The current here
was quite rapid, and drifted down some dead wood. The rising
tide—and it could already be perceived—must drive it back with
force to a considerable distance. The sailor then thought that they
could utilize this ebb and flow for the transport of heavy
objects.

After having walked for a quarter of an hour, the sailor and the
boy arrived at the angle which the river made in turning towards
the left. From this point its course was pursued through a forest
of magnificent trees. These trees still retained their verdure,
notwithstanding the advanced season, for they belonged to the
family of "coniferae," which is spread over all the regions of the
globe, from northern climates to the tropics. The young naturalist
recognized especially the "deedara," which are very numerous in the
Himalayan zone, and which spread around them a most agreeable odor.
Between these beautiful trees sprang up clusters of firs, whose
opaque open parasol boughs spread wide around. Among the long
grass, Pencroft felt that his feet were crushing dry branches which
crackled like fireworks.

"Well, my boy," said he to Herbert, "if I don't know the name of
these trees, at any rate I reckon that we may call them 'burning
wood,' and just now that's the chief thing we want."

