"With good old Jup there is never any quarreling," often
repeated Pencroft, "never any improper reply. What a servant, Neb,
what a servant!"

Of course Jup was now well used to service. He brushed their
clothes, he turned the spit, he waited at table, he swept the
rooms, he gathered wood, and he performed another admirable piece
of service which delighted Pencroftâ€”he never went to sleep without
first coming to tuck up the worthy sailor in his bed.

As to the health of the members of the colony, bipeds or bimana,
quadrumana or quadrupeds, it left nothing to be desired. With their
life in the open air, on this salubrious soil, under that temperate
zone, working both with head and hands, they could not suppose that
illness would ever attack them.

All were indeed wonderfully well. Herbert had already grown two
inches in the year. His figure was forming and becoming more manly,
and he promised to be an accomplished man, physically as well as
morally. Besides he improved himself during the leisure hours which
manual occupations left to him; he read the books found in the
case; and after the practical lessons which were taught by the very
necessity of their position, he found in the engineer for science,
and the reporter for languages, masters who were delighted to
complete his education.

The tempest ended about the 9th of March, but the sky remained
covered with clouds during the whole of this last summer month. The
atmosphere, violently agitated by the electric commotions, could
not recover its former purity, and there was almost invariably rain
and fog, except for three or four fine days on which several
excursions were made. About this time the female onager gave birth
to a young one which belonged to the same sex as its mother, and
which throve capitally. In the corral, the flock of musmons had
also increased, and several lambs already bleated in the sheds, to
the great delight of Neb and Herbert, who had each their favorite
among these newcomers. An attempt was also made for the
domestication of the peccaries, which succeeded well. A sty was
constructed under the poultry-yard, and soon contained several
young ones in the way to become civilized, that is to say, to
become fat under Neb's care. Master Jup, entrusted with carrying
them their daily nourishment, leavings from the kitchen, etc.,
acquitted himself conscientiously of his task. He sometimes amused
himself at the expense of his little pensioners by tweaking their
tails; but this was mischief, and not wickedness, for these little
twisted tails amused him like a plaything, and his instinct was
that of a child. One day in this month of March, Pencroft, talking
to the engineer, reminded Cyrus Harding of a promise which the
latter had not as yet had time to fulfil.

"You once spoke of an apparatus which would take the place of
the long ladders at Granite House, captain," said he; "won't you
make it some day?"

"Nothing will be easier; but is this a really useful thing?"

"Certainly, captain. After we have given ourselves necessaries,
let us think a little of luxury. For us it may be luxury, if you
like, but for things it is necessary. It isn't very convenient to
climb up a long ladder when one is heavily loaded."

"Well, Pencroft, we will try to please you," replied Cyrus
Harding.

"But you have no machine at your disposal."

"We will make one."
