
"We won't waste time," returned Pencroft. "You, Herbert, go and
gather the seeds, which you know better than we do. While you do
that, Mr. Spilett and I will go and have a pig hunt, and even
without Top I hope we shall manage to catch a few!"

Herbert accordingly took the path which led towards the
cultivated part of the islet, while the sailor and the reporter
entered the forest.

Many specimens of the porcine race fled before them, and these
animals, which were singularly active, did not appear to be in a
humor to allow themselves to be approached.

However, after an hour's chase, the hunters had just managed to
get hold of a couple lying in a thicket, when cries were heard
resounding from the north part of the island, With the cries were
mingled terrible yells, in which there was nothing human.

Pencroft and Gideon Spilett were at once on their feet, and the
pigs by this movement began to run away, at the moment when the
sailor was getting ready the rope to bind them.

"That's Herbert's voice," said the reporter.

"Run!" exclaimed Pencroft.

And the sailor and Spilett immediately ran at full speed towards
the spot from whence the cries proceeded.

They did well to hasten, for at a turn of the path near a
clearing they saw the lad thrown on the ground and in the grasp of
a savage being, apparently a gigantic ape, who was about to do him
some great harm.

To rush on this monster, throw him on the ground in his turn,
snatch Herbert from him, then bind him securely, was the work of a
minute for Pencroft and Gideon Spilett. The sailor was of Herculean
strength, the reporter also very powerful, and in spite of the
monster's resistance he was firmly tied so that he could not even
move.

