


Chapter

3

&#160;


The night passed without incident. The colonists were on the qui
vive, and did not leave their post at the Chimneys. The pirates, on
their side, did not appear to have made any attempt to land. Since
the last shots fired at Ayrton not a report, not even a sound, had
betrayed the presence of the brig in the neighborhood of the
island. It might have been fancied that she had weighed anchor,
thinking that she had to deal with her match, and had left the
coast.

But it was no such thing, and when day began to dawn the
settlers could see a confused mass through the morning mist. It was
the "Speedy."

"These, my friends," said the engineer, "are the arrangements
which appear to me best to make before the fog completely clears
away. It hides us from the eyes of the pirates, and we can act
without attracting their attention. The most important thing is,
that the convicts should believe that the inhabitants of the island
are numerous, and consequently capable of resisting them. I
therefore propose that we divide into three parties. The first of
which shall be posted at the Chimneys, the second at the mouth of
the Mercy. As to the third, I think it would be best to place it on
the islet, so as to prevent, or at all events delay, any attempt at
landing. We have the use of two rifles and four muskets. Each of us
will be armed, and, as we are amply provided with powder and shot,
we need not spare our fire. We have nothing to fear from the
muskets nor even from the guns of the brig. What can they do
against these rocks? And, as we shall not fire from the windows of
Granite House, the pirates will not think of causing irreparable
damage by throwing shell against it. What is to be feared is, the
necessity of meeting hand-to-hand, since the convicts have numbers
on their side. We must therefore try to prevent them from landing,
but without discovering ourselves. Therefore, do not economize the
ammunition. Fire often, but with a sure aim. We have each eight or
ten enemies to kill, and they must be killed!"

Cyrus Harding had clearly represented their situation, although
he spoke in the calmest voice, as if it was a question of directing
a piece of work and not ordering a battle. His companions approved
these arrangements without even uttering a word. There was nothing
more to be done but for each to take his place before the fog
should be completely dissipated. Neb and Pencroft immediately
ascended to Granite House and brought back a sufficient quantity of
ammunition. Gideon Spilett and Ayrton, both very good marksmen,
were armed with the two rifles, which carried nearly a mile. The
four other muskets were divided among Harding, Neb, Pencroft, and
Herbert.

The posts were arranged in the following manner:â€”

Cyrus Harding and Herbert remained in ambush at the Chimneys,
thus commanding the shore to the foot of Granite House.

