"But is he equal to five?" asked the engineer.

"I will join Pencroft," said the reporter, "and both of us,
well-armed and accompanied by Topâ€”"

"My dear Spilett, and you, Pencroft," answered Harding, "let us
reason coolly. If the convicts were hid in one spot of the island,
if we knew that spot, and had only to dislodge them, I would
undertake a direct attack; but is there not occasion to fear, on
the contrary, that they are sure to fire the first shot?"

"Well, captain," cried Pencroft, "a bullet does not always reach
its mark."

"That which struck Herbert did not miss, Pencroft," replied the
engineer. "Besides, observe that if both of you left the corral I
should remain here alone to defend it. Do you imagine that the
convicts will not see you leave it, that they will not allow you to
enter the forest, and that they will not attack it during your
absence, knowing that there is no one here but a wounded boy and a
man?"

"You are right, captain," replied Pencroft, his chest swelling
with sullen anger. "You are right; they will do all they can to
retake the corral, which they know to be well stored; and alone you
could not hold it against them."

"Oh, if we were only at Granite House!"

"If we were at Granite House," answered the engineer, "the case
would be very different. There I should not be afraid to leave
Herbert with one, while the other three went to search the forests
of the island. But we are at the corral, and it is best to stay
here until we can leave it together."

Cyrus Harding's reasoning was unanswerable, and his companions
understood it well.

"If only Ayrton was still one of us!" said Gideon Spilett. "Poor
fellow! his return to social life will have been but of short
duration."

"If he is dead," added Pencroft, in a peculiar tone.
