


Chapter

10

&#160;


Of the convicts, the dangers which menaced Granite House, the
ruins with which the plateau was covered, the colonists thought no
longer. Herbert's critical state outweighed all other
considerations. Would the removal prove fatal to him by causing
some internal injury? The reporter could not affirm it, but he and
his companions almost despaired of the result. The cart was brought
to the bend of the river. There some branches, disposed as a liner,
received the mattress on which lay the unconscious Herbert. Ten
minutes after, Cyrus Harding, Spilett, and Pencroft were at the
foot of the cliff, leaving Neb to take the cart on to the plateau
of Prospect Heights. The lift was put in motion, and Herbert was
soon stretched on his bed in Granite House.

What cares were lavished on him to bring him back to life! He
smiled for a moment on finding himself in his room, but could
scarcely even murmur a few words, so great was his weakness. Gideon
Spilett examined his wounds. He feared to find them reopened,
having been imperfectly healed. There was nothing of the sort. From
whence, then, came this prostration? why was Herbert so much worse?
The lad then fell into a kind of feverish sleep, and the reporter
and Pencroft remained near the bed. During this time, Harding told
Neb all that had happened at the corral, and Neb recounted to his
master the events of which the plateau had just been the
theater.

It was only during the preceding night that the convicts had
appeared on the edge of the forest, at the approaches to Creek
Glycerine. Neb, who was watching near the poultry-yard, had not
hesitated to fire at one of the pirates, who was about to cross the
stream; but in the darkness he could not tell whether the man had
been hit or not. At any rate, it was not enough to frighten away
the band, and Neb had only just time to get up to Granite House,
where at least he was in safety.

But what was he to do there? How prevent the devastations with
which the convicts threatened the plateau? Had Neb any means by
which to warn his master? And, besides, in what situation were the
inhabitants of the corral themselves? Cyrus Harding and his
companions had left on the 11th of November, and it was now the
29th. It was, therefore, nineteen days since Neb had had other news
than that brought by Topâ€”disastrous news: Ayrton disappeared,
Herbert severely wounded, the engineer, reporter, and sailor, as it
were, imprisoned in the corral!

What was he to do? asked poor Neb. Personally he had nothing to
fear, for the convicts could not reach him in Granite House. But
the buildings, the plantations, all their arrangements at the mercy
of the pirates! Would it not be best to let Cyrus Harding judge of
what he ought to do, and to warn him, at least, of the danger which
threatened him?

Neb then thought of employing Jup, and confiding a note to him.
He knew the orang's great intelligence, which had been often put to
the proof. Jup understood the word corral, which had been
frequently pronounced before him, and it may be remembered, too,
that he had often driven the cart thither in company with Pencroft.
Day had not yet dawned. The active orang would know how to pass
unperceived through the woods, of which the convicts, besides,
would think he was a native.

