"Yes—yes!" replied Pencroft.

"It is Top! It is Top!" cried Herbert, who had just awoke; and
all three rushed towards the opening of the Chimneys. They had
great difficulty in getting out. The wind drove them back. But at
last they succeeded, and could only remain standing by leaning
against the rocks. They looked about, but could not speak. The
darkness was intense. The sea, the sky, the land were all mingled
in one black mass. Not a speck of light was visible.

The reporter and his companions remained thus for a few minutes,
overwhelmed by the wind, drenched by the rain, blinded by the
sand.

Then, in a pause of the tumult, they again heard the barking,
which they found must be at some distance.

It could only be Top! But was he alone or accompanied? He was
most probably alone, for, if Neb had been with him, he would have
made his way more directly towards the Chimneys. The sailor
squeezed the reporter's hand, for he could not make himself heard,
in a way which signified "Wait!" then he reentered the passage.

An instant after he issued with a lighted fagot, which he threw
into the darkness, whistling shrilly.

It appeared as if this signal had been waited for; the barking
immediately came nearer, and soon a dog bounded into the passage.
Pencroft, Herbert, and Spilett entered after him.

An armful of dry wood was thrown on the embers. The passage was
lighted up with a bright flame.

"It is Top!" cried Herbert.

It was indeed Top, a magnificent Anglo-Norman, who derived from
these two races crossed the swiftness of foot and the acuteness of
smell which are the preeminent qualities of coursing dogs. It was
the dog of the engineer, Cyrus Harding. But he was alone! Neither
Neb nor his master accompanied him!

How was it that his instinct had guided him straight to the
Chimneys, which he did not know? It appeared inexplicable, above
all, in the midst of this black night and in such a tempest! But
what was still more inexplicable was, that Top was neither tired,
nor exhausted, nor even soiled with mud or sand!—Herbert had drawn
him towards him, and was patting his head, the dog rubbing his neck
against the lad's hands.
