
"Alone?"

"Yes!"

"But they will come back!" cried Ayrton. "Defend yourselves!
defend yourselves!"

And he fell back exhausted.

"Spilett," exclaimed the engineer, "we may be attacked at any
moment. Bring the cart into the corral. Then, barricade the door,
and all come back here."

Pencroft, Neb, and the reporter hastened to execute the
engineer's orders. There was not a moment to be lost. Perhaps even
now the cart was in the hands of the convicts!

In a moment the reporter and his two companions had crossed the
corral and reached the gate of the palisade behind which Top was
heard growling sullenly.

The engineer, leaving Ayrton for an instant, came out ready to
fire. Herbert was at his side. Both surveyed the crest of the spur
overlooking the corral. If the convicts were lying in ambush there,
they might knock the settlers over one after the other.

At that moment the moon appeared in the east, above the black
curtain of the forest, and a white sheet of light spread over the
interior of the enclosure. The corral, with its clumps of trees,
the little stream which watered it, its wide carpet of grass, was
suddenly illuminated. From the side of the mountain, the house and
a part of the palisade stood out white in the moonlight. On the
opposite side towards the door, the enclosure remained dark. A
black mass soon appeared. This was the cart entering the circle of
light, and Cyrus Harding could hear the noise made by the door, as
his companions shut it and fastened the interior bars.

But, at that moment, Top, breaking loose, began to bark
furiously and rush to the back of the corral, to the right of the
house.

