


Chapter

15

&#160;


The colonists, warned by the engineer, left their work and gazed
in silence at the summit of Mount Franklin.

The volcano had awoke, and the vapor had penetrated the mineral
layer heaped at the bottom of the crater. But would the
subterranean fires provoke any violent eruption? This was an event
which could not be foreseen. However, even while admitting the
possibility of an eruption, it was not probable that the whole of
Lincoln Island would suffer from it. The flow of volcanic matter is
not always disastrous, and the island had already undergone this
trial, as was shown by the streams of lava hardened on the northern
slopes of the mountain. Besides, from the shape of the crater—the
opening broken in the upper edge—the matter would be thrown to the
side opposite the fertile regions of the island.

However, the past did not necessarily answer for the future.
Often, at the summit of volcanoes, the old craters close and new
ones open. This had occurred in the two hemispheres—at Etna,
Popocatepetl, at Orizabaand on the eve of an eruption there is
everything to be feared. In fact, an earthquake—a phenomenon which
often accompanies volcanic eruption—is enough to change the
interior arrangement of a mountain, and to open new outlets for the
burning lava.

Cyrus Harding explained these things to his companions, and,
without exaggerating the state of things, he told them all the pros
and cons. After all, they could not prevent it. It did not appear
likely that Granite House would be threatened unless the ground was
shaken by an earthquake. But the corral would be in great danger
should a new crater open in the southern side of Mount
Franklin.

From that day the smoke never disappeared from the top of the
mountain, and it could even be perceived that it increased in
height and thickness, without any flame mingling in its heavy
volumes. The phenomenon was still concentrated in the lower part of
the central crater.

However, with the fine days work had been continued. The
building of the vessel was hastened as much as possible, and, by
means of the waterfall on the shore, Cyrus Harding managed to
establish an hydraulic sawmill, which rapidly cut up the trunks of
trees into planks and joists. The mechanism of this apparatus was
as simple as those used in the rustic sawmills of Norway. A first
horizontal movement to move the piece of wood, a second vertical
movement to move the saw—this was all that was wanted; and the
engineer succeeded by means of a wheel, two cylinders, and pulleys
properly arranged. Towards the end of the month of September the
skeleton of the vessel, which was to be rigged as a schooner, lay
in the dockyard. The ribs were almost entirely completed, and, all
the timbers having been sustained by a provisional band, the shape
of the vessel could already be seen. The schooner, sharp in the
bows, very slender in the after-part, would evidently be suitable
for a long voyage, if wanted; but laying the planking would still
take a considerable time. Very fortunately, the iron work of the
pirate brig had been saved after the explosion. From the planks and
injured ribs Pencroft and Ayrton had extracted the bolts and a
large quantity of copper nails. It was so much work saved for the
smiths, but the carpenters had much to do.

