"It seems to me," said Ayrton, who had reclined so as to place
his ear to the ground, "it seems to me that I can hear a dull,
rumbling sound, like that of a wagon loaded with bars of iron."

The colonists listened with the greatest attention, and were
convinced that Ayrton was not mistaken. The rumbling was mingled
with a subterranean roar, which formed a sort of rinforzando, and
died slowly away, as if some violent storm had passed through the
profundities of the globe. But no explosion properly so termed,
could be heard. It might therefore be concluded that the vapors and
smoke found a free passage through the central shaft; and that the
safety-valve being sufficiently large, no convulsion would be
produced, no explosion was to be apprehended.

"Well, then!" said Pencroft, "are we not going back to work? Let
Mount Franklin smoke, groan, bellow, or spout forth fire and flame
as much as it pleases, that is no reason why we should be idle!
Come, Ayrton, Neb, Herbert, Captain Harding, Mr. Spilett, every one
of us must turn to at our work to-day! We are going to place the
keelson, and a dozen pair of hands would not be too many. Before
two months I want our new 'Bonadventure'— for we shall keep the old
name, shall we not?—to float on the waters of Port Balloon!
Therefore there is not an hour to lose!"

All the colonists, their services thus requisitioned by
Pencroft, descended to the dockyard, and proceeded to place the
keelson, a thick mass of wood which forms the lower portion of a
ship and unites firmly the timbers of the hull. It was an arduous
undertaking, in which all took part.

They continued their labors during the whole of this day, the
3rd of January, without thinking further of the volcano, which
could not, besides, be seen from the shore of Granite House. But
once or twice, large shadows, veiling the sun, which described its
diurnal arc through an extremely clear sky, indicated that a thick
cloud of smoke passed between its disc and the island. The wind,
blowing on the shore, carried all these vapors to the westward.
Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett remarked these somber appearances,
and from time to time discussed the evident progress of the
volcanic phenomena, but their work went on without interruption. It
was, besides, of the first importance from every point of view,
that the vessel should be finished with the least possible delay.
In presence of the eventualities which might arise, the safety of
the colonists would be to a great extent secured by their ship. Who
could tell that it might not prove some day their only refuge?

In the evening, after supper, Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, and
Herbert again ascended the plateau of Prospect Heights. It was
already dark, and the obscurity would permit them to ascertain if
flames or incandescent matter thrown up by the volcano were mingled
with the vapor and smoke accumulated at the mouth of the
crater.

"The crater is on fire!" said Herbert, who, more active than his
companion, first reached the plateau.

Mount Franklin, distant about six miles, now appeared like a
gigantic torch, around the summit of which turned fuliginous
flames. So much smoke, and possibly scoriae and cinders were
mingled with them, that their light gleamed but faintly amid the
gloom of the night. But a kind of lurid brilliancy spread over the
island, against which stood out confusedly the wooded masses of the
heights. Immense whirlwinds of vapor obscured the sky, through
which glimmered a few stars.

"The change is rapid!" said the engineer.

"That is not surprising," answered the reporter. "The
reawakening of the volcano already dates back some time. You may
remember, Cyrus, that the first vapors appeared about the time we
searched the sides of the mountain to discover Captain Nemo's
retreat. It was, if I mistake not, about the 15th of October."

"Yes," replied Herbert, "two months and a half ago!"
