
"Yes, instinct speaks through them, and instinct is never
deceived."

"Are you ready?"

"Take a lamp, Ayrton," answered the engineer; "we will start at
once."

Ayrton did as desired. The onagers, unharnessed, roamed in the
corral. The gate was secured on the outside, and Cyrus Harding,
preceding Ayrton, took the narrow path which led westward to the
shore.

The soil they walked upon was choked with the pulverized matter
fallen from the cloud. No quadruped appeared in the woods. Even the
birds had fled. Sometimes a passing breeze raised the covering of
ashes, and the two colonists, enveloped in a whirlwind of dust,
lost sight of each other. They were then careful to cover their
eyes and mouths with handkerchiefs, for they ran the risk of being
blinded and suffocated.

It was impossible for Cyrus Harding and Ayrton, with these
impediments, to make rapid progress. Moreover, the atmosphere was
close, as if the oxygen had been partly burned up, and had become
unfit for respiration. At every hundred paces they were obliged to
stop to take breath. It was therefore past ten o'clock when the
engineer and his companion reached the crest of the enormous mass
of rocks of basalt and porphyry which composed the northwest coast
of the island.

Ayrton and Cyrus Harding commenced the descent of this abrupt
declivity, following almost step for step the difficult path which,
during that stormy night, had led them to Dakkar Grotto. In open
day the descent was less perilous, and, besides, the bed of ashes
which covered the polished surface of the rock enabled them to make
their footing more secure.

The ridge at the end of the shore, about forty feet in height,
was soon reached. Cyrus Harding recollected that this elevation
gradually sloped towards the level of the sea. Although the tide
was at present low, no beach could he seen, and the waves,
thickened by the volcanic dust, beat upon the basaltic rocks.

Cyrus Harding and Ayrton found without difficulty the entrance
to Dakkar Grotto, and paused for a moment at the last rock before
it.

"The iron boat should be there," said the engineer.

