
"Not so!" said Cyrus Harding, "should a day arrive when the sea,
rushing through the wall of the cavern, penetrates by the central
shaft into the interior of the island to the boiling lava, Lincoln
Island will that day be blown into the airâ€”just as would happen to
the island of Sicily were the Mediterranean to precipitate itself
into Mount Etna."

The colonists made no answer to these significant words of the
engineer. They now understood the danger by which they were
menaced.

It may be added that Cyrus Harding had in no way exaggerated the
danger to be apprehended. Many persons have formed an idea that it
would be possible to extinguish volcanoes, which are almost always
situated on the shores of a sea or lake, by opening a passage for
the admission of the water. But they are not aware that this would
be to incur the risk of blowing up a portion of the globe, like a
boiler whose steam is suddenly expanded by intense heat. The water,
rushing into a cavity whose temperature might be estimated at
thousands of degrees, would be converted into steam with a sudden
energy which no enclosure could resist.

It was not therefore doubtful that the island, menaced by a
frightful and approaching convulsion, would endure only so long as
the wall of Dakkar Grotto itself should endure. It was not even a
question of months, nor of weeks, but of days; it might be of
hours.

The first sentiment which the colonists felt was that of
profound sorrow. They thought not so much of the peril which
menaced themselves personally, but of the destruction of the island
which had sheltered them, which they had cultivated, which they
loved so well, and had hoped to render so flourishing. So much
effort ineffectually expended, so much labor lost.

Pencroft could not prevent a large tear from rolling down his
cheek, nor did he attempt to conceal it.

Some further conversation now took place. The chances yet in
favor of the colonists were discussed; but finally it was agreed
that there was not an hour to be lost, that the building and
fitting of the vessel should be pushed forward with their utmost
energy, and that this was the sole chance of safety for the
inhabitants of Lincoln Island.

All hands, therefore, set to work on the vessel. What could it
avail to sow, to reap, to hunt, to increase the stores of Granite
House? The contents of the storehouse and outbuildings contained
more than sufficient to provide the ship for a voyage, however long
might be its duration. But it was imperative that the ship should
be ready to receive them before the inevitable catastrophe should
arrive.

Their labors were now carried on with feverish ardor. By the
23rd of January the vessel was half-decked over. Up to this time no
change had taken place on the summit of the volcano. Vapor and
smoke mingled with flames and incandescent stones were thrown up
from the crater. But during the night of the 23rd, in consequence
of the lava attaining the level of the first stratum of the
volcano, the hat-shaped cone which formed over the latter
disappeared. A frightful sound was heard. The colonists at first
thought the island was rent asunder, and rushed out of Granite
House.

This occurred about two o'clock in the morning.

