


Chapter

20

&#160;


An isolated rock, thirty feet in length, twenty in breadth,
scarcely ten from the water's edge, such was the only solid point
which the waves of the Pacific had not engulfed.

It was all that remained of the structure of Granite House! The
wall had fallen headlong and been then shattered to fragments, and
a few of the rocks of the large room were piled one above another
to form this point. All around had disappeared in the abyss; the
inferior cone of Mount Franklin, rent asunder by the explosion; the
lava jaws of Shark Gulf, the plateau of Prospect Heights, Safety
Islet, the granite rocks of Port Balloon, the basalts of Dakkar
Grotto, the long Serpentine Peninsula, so distant nevertheless from
the center of the eruption. All that could now be seen of Lincoln
Island was the narrow rock which now served as a refuge to the six
colonists and their dog Top.

The animals had also perished in the catastrophe; the birds, as
well as those representing the fauna of the islandâ€”all either
crushed or drowned, and the unfortunate Jup himself had, alas!
found his death in some crevice of the soil.

If Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, Herbert, Pencroft, Neb, and
Ayrton had survived, it was because, assembled under their tent,
they had been hurled into the sea at the instant when the fragments
of the island rained down on every side.

When they reached the surface they could only perceive, at half
a cable's length, this mass of rocks, towards which they swam and
on which they found footing.

On this barren rock they had now existed for nine days. A few
provisions taken from the magazine of Granite House before the
catastrophe, a little fresh water from the rain which had fallen in
a hollow of the rock, was all that the unfortunate colonists
possessed. Their last hope, the vessel, had been shattered to
pieces. They had no means of quitting the reef; no fire, nor any
means of obtaining it. It seemed that they must inevitably
perish.

