
"No crime, but a very great error has been committed," said
Holmes. "You would have done better to have trusted you wife."

"It was not the wife; it was the children," groaned the
prisoner. "God help me, I would not have them ashamed of their
father. My God! What an exposure! What can I do?"

Sherlock Holmes sat down beside him on the couch and patted him
kindly on the shoulder.

"If you leave it to a court of law to clear the matter up," said
he, "of course you can hardly avoid publicity. On the other hand,
if you convince the police authorities that there is no possible
case against you, I do not know that there is any reason that the
details should find their way into the papers. Inspector Bradstreet
would, I am sure, make notes upon anything which you might tell us
and submit it to the proper authorities. The case would then never
go into court at all."

"God bless you!" cried the prisoner passionately. "I would have
endured imprisonment, ay, even execution, rather than have left my
miserable secret as a family blot to my children.

"You are the first who have ever heard my story. My father was a
schoolmaster in Chesterfield, where I received an excellent
education. I travelled in my youth, took to the stage, and finally
became a reporter on an evening paper in London. One day my editor
wished to have a series of articles upon begging in the metropolis,
and I volunteered to supply them. There was the point from which
all my adventures started. It was only by trying begging as an
amateur that I could get the facts upon which to base my articles.
When an actor I had, of course, learned all the secrets of making
up, and had been famous in the green-room for my skill. I took
advantage now of my attainments. I painted my face, and to make
myself as pitiable as possible I made a good scar and fixed one
side of my lip in a twist by the aid of a small slip of
flesh-coloured plaster. Then with a red head of hair, and an
appropriate dress, I took my station in the business part of the
city, ostensibly as a match-seller but really as a beggar. For
seven hours I plied my trade, and when I returned home in the
evening I found to my surprise that I had received no less than
26s. 4d.

"I wrote my articles and thought little more of the matter
until, some time later, I backed a bill for a friend and had a writ
served upon me for 25 pounds. I was at my wit's end where to get
the money, but a sudden idea came to me. I begged a fortnight's
grace from the creditor, asked for a holiday from my employers, and
spent the time in begging in the City under my disguise. In ten
days I had the money and had paid the debt.

"Well, you can imagine how hard it was to settle down to arduous
work at 2 pounds a week when I knew that I could earn as much in a
day by smearing my face with a little paint, laying my cap on the
ground, and sitting still. It was a long fight between my pride and
the money, but the dollars won at last, and I threw up reporting
and sat day after day in the corner which I had first chosen,
inspiring pity by my ghastly face and filling my pockets with
coppers. Only one man knew my secret. He was the keeper of a low
den in which I used to lodge in Swandam Lane, where I could every
morning emerge as a squalid beggar and in the evenings transform
myself into a well-dressed man about town. This fellow, a Lascar,
was well paid by me for his rooms, so that I knew that my secret
was safe in his possession.

"Well, very soon I found that I was saving considerable sums of
money. I do not mean that any beggar in the streets of London could
earn 700 pounds a year—which is less than my average takings—but I
had exceptional advantages in my power of making up, and also in a
facility of repartee, which improved by practice and made me quite
a recognised character in the City. All day a stream of pennies,
varied by silver, poured in upon me, and it was a very bad day in
which I failed to take 2 pounds.

"As I grew richer I grew more ambitious, took a house in the
country, and eventually married, without anyone having a suspicion
as to my real occupation. My dear wife knew that I had business in
the City. She little knew what.

