"Do not go asleep; your very life may depend upon it. Have your
pistol ready in case we should need it. I will sit on the side of
the bed, and you in that chair."

I took out my revolver and laid it on the corner of the
table.

Holmes had brought up a long thin cane, and this he placed upon
the bed beside him. By it he laid the box of matches and the stump
of a candle. Then he turned down the lamp, and we were left in
darkness.

How shall I ever forget that dreadful vigil? I could not hear a
sound, not even the drawing of a breath, and yet I knew that my
companion sat open-eyed, within a few feet of me, in the same state
of nervous tension in which I was myself. The shutters cut off the
least ray of light, and we waited in absolute darkness.

From outside came the occasional cry of a night-bird, and once
at our very window a long drawn catlike whine, which told us that
the cheetah was indeed at liberty. Far away we could hear the deep
tones of the parish clock, which boomed out every quarter of an
hour. How long they seemed, those quarters! Twelve struck, and one
and two and three, and still we sat waiting silently for whatever
might befall.

Suddenly there was the momentary gleam of a light up in the
direction of the ventilator, which vanished immediately, but was
succeeded by a strong smell of burning oil and heated metal.
Someone in the next room had lit a dark-lantern. I heard a gentle
sound of movement, and then all was silent once more, though the
smell grew stronger. For half an hour I sat with straining ears.
Then suddenly another sound became audibleâ€”a very gentle, soothing
sound, like that of a small jet of steam escaping continually from
a kettle. The instant that we heard it, Holmes sprang from the bed,
struck a match, and lashed furiously with his cane at the
bell-pull.

"You see it, Watson?" he yelled. "You see it?"

But I saw nothing. At the moment when Holmes struck the light I
heard a low, clear whistle, but the sudden glare flashing into my
weary eyes made it impossible for me to tell what it was at which
my friend lashed so savagely. I could, however, see that his face
was deadly pale and filled with horror and loathing. He had ceased
to strike and was gazing up at the ventilator when suddenly there
broke from the silence of the night the most horrible cry to which
I have ever listened. It swelled up louder and louder, a hoarse
yell of pain and fear and anger all mingled in the one dreadful
shriek. They say that away down in the village, and even in the
distant parsonage, that cry raised the sleepers from their beds. It
struck cold to our hearts, and I stood gazing at Holmes, and he at
me, until the last echoes of it had died away into the silence from
which it rose.

"What can it mean?" I gasped.

"It means that it is all over," Holmes answered. "And perhaps,
after all, it is for the best. Take your pistol, and we will enter
Dr. Roylott's room."

With a grave face he lit the lamp and led the way down the
corridor. Twice he struck at the chamber door without any reply
from within. Then he turned the handle and entered, I at his heels,
with the cocked pistol in my hand.
