"I have very little difficulty in finding what I want," said I,
"for the facts are quite recent, and the matter struck me as
remarkable. I feared to refer them to you, however, as I knew that
you had an inquiry on hand and that you disliked the intrusion of
other matters."

"Oh, you mean the little problem of the Grosvenor Square
furniture van. That is quite cleared up now—though, indeed, it was
obvious from the first. Pray give me the results of your newspaper
selections."

"Here is the first notice which I can find. It is in the
personal column of the Morning Post, and dates, as you see, some
weeks back: 'A marriage has been arranged,' it says, 'and will, if
rumour is correct, very shortly take place, between Lord Robert St.
Simon, second son of the Duke of Balmoral, and Miss Hatty Doran,
the only daughter of Aloysius Doran. Esq., of San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S.A.' That is all."

"Terse and to the point," remarked Holmes, stretching his long,
thin legs towards the fire.

"There was a paragraph amplifying this in one of the society
papers of the same week. Ah, here it is: 'There will soon be a call
for protection in the marriage market, for the present free-trade
principle appears to tell heavily against our home product. One by
one the management of the noble houses of Great Britain is passing
into the hands of our fair cousins from across the Atlantic. An
important addition has been made during the last week to the list
of the prizes which have been borne away by these charming
invaders. Lord St. Simon, who has shown himself for over twenty
years proof against the little god's arrows, has now definitely
announced his approaching marriage with Miss Hatty Doran, the
fascinating daughter of a California millionaire. Miss Doran, whose
graceful figure and striking face attracted much attention at the
Westbury House festivities, is an only child, and it is currently
reported that her dowry will run to considerably over the six
figures, with expectancies for the future. As it is an open secret
that the Duke of Balmoral has been compelled to sell his pictures
within the last few years, and as Lord St. Simon has no property of
his own save the small estate of Birchmoor, it is obvious that the
Californian heiress is not the only gainer by an alliance which
will enable her to make the easy and common transition from a
Republican lady to a British peeress.'"

"Anything else?" asked Holmes, yawning.

"Oh, yes; plenty. Then there is another note in the Morning Post
to say that the marriage would be an absolutely quiet one, that it
would be at St. George's, Hanover Square, that only half a dozen
intimate friends would be invited, and that the party would return
to the furnished house at Lancaster Gate which has been taken by
Mr. Aloysius Doran. Two days later—that is, on Wednesday last—there
is a curt announcement that the wedding had taken place, and that
the honeymoon would be passed at Lord Backwater's place, near
Petersfield. Those are all the notices which appeared before the
disappearance of the bride."

"Before the what?" asked Holmes with a start.

"The vanishing of the lady."

"When did she vanish, then?"

"At the wedding breakfast."
