


Chapter

15

&#160;


A few minutes later Tom was in the shoal water of the bar,
wading toward the Illinois shore. Before the depth reached his
middle he was half-way over; the current would permit no more
wading, now, so he struck out confidently to swim the remaining
hundred yards. He swam quartering upstream, but still was swept
downward rather faster than he had expected. However, he reached
the shore finally, and drifted along till he found a low place and
drew himself out. He put his hand on his jacket pocket, found his
piece of bark safe, and then struck through the woods, following
the shore, with streaming garments. Shortly before ten o'clock he
came out into an open place opposite the village, and saw the
ferryboat lying in the shadow of the trees and the high bank.
Everything was quiet under the blinking stars. He crept down the
bank, watching with all his eyes, slipped into the water, swam
three or four strokes and climbed into the skiff that did "yawl"
duty at the boat's stern. He laid himself down under the thwarts
and waited, panting.

Presently the cracked bell tapped and a voice gave the order to
"cast off." A minute or two later the skiff's head was standing
high up, against the boat's swell, and the voyage was begun. Tom
felt happy in his success, for he knew it was the boat's last trip
for the night. At the end of a long twelve or fifteen minutes the
wheels stopped, and Tom slipped overboard and swam ashore in the
dusk, landing fifty yards downstream, out of danger of possible
stragglers.

He flew along unfrequented alleys, and shortly found himself at
his aunt's back fence. He climbed over, approached the "ell," and
looked in at the sitting-room window, for a light was burning
there. There sat Aunt Polly, Sid, Mary, and Joe Harper's mother,
grouped together, talking. They were by the bed, and the bed was
between them and the door. Tom went to the door and began to softly
lift the latch; then he pressed gently and the door yielded a
crack; he continued pushing cautiously, and quaking every time it
creaked, till he judged he might squeeze through on his knees; so
he put his head through and began, warily.

"What makes the candle blow so?" said Aunt Polly. Tom hurried
up. "Why, that door's open, I believe. Why, of course it is. No end
of strange things now. Go 'long and shut it, Sid."

Tom disappeared under the bed just in time. He lay and
"breathed" himself for a time, and then crept to where he could
almost touch his aunt's foot.

"But as I was saying," said Aunt Polly, "he warn't bad, so to
say — only mischeevous. Only just giddy, and harum-scarum, you
know. He warn't any more responsible than a colt. He never meant
any harm, and he was the best-hearted boy that ever was" — and she
began to cry.

