"So do I! And when we tell 'em we learned when we was off
pirating, won't they wish they'd been along?"

"Oh, I reckon not! I'll just bet they will!"

So the talk ran on. But presently it began to flag a trifle, and
grow disjointed. The silences widened; the expectoration
marvellously increased. Every pore inside the boys' cheeks became a
spouting fountain; they could scarcely bail out the cellars under
their tongues fast enough to prevent an inundation; little
overflowings down their throats occurred in spite of all they could
do, and sudden retchings followed every time. Both boys were
looking very pale and miserable, now. Joe's pipe dropped from his
nerveless fingers. Tom's followed. Both fountains were going
furiously and both pumps bailing with might and main. Joe said
feebly:

"I've lost my knife. I reckon I better go and find it."

Tom said, with quivering lips and halting utterance:

"I'll help you. You go over that way and I'll hunt around by the
spring. No, you needn't come, Huck — we can find it."

So Huck sat down again, and waited an hour. Then he found it
lonesome, and went to find his comrades. They were wide apart in
the woods, both very pale, both fast asleep. But something informed
him that if they had had any trouble they had got rid of it.

They were not talkative at supper that night. They had a humble
look, and when Huck prepared his pipe after the meal and was going
to prepare theirs, they said no, they were not feeling very well —
something they ate at dinner had disagreed with them.

About midnight Joe awoke, and called the boys. There was a
brooding oppressiveness in the air that seemed to bode something.
The boys huddled themselves together and sought the friendly
companionship of the fire, though the dull dead heat of the
breathless atmosphere was stifling. They sat still, intent and
waiting. The solemn hush continued. Beyond the light of the fire
everything was swallowed up in the blackness of darkness. Presently
there came a quivering glow that vaguely revealed the foliage for a
moment and then vanished. By and by another came, a little
stronger. Then another. Then a faint moan came sighing through the
branches of the forest and the boys felt a fleeting breath upon
their cheeks, and shuddered with the fancy that the Spirit of the
Night had gone by. There was a pause. Now a weird flash turned
night into day and showed every little grass-blade, separate and
distinct, that grew about their feet. And it showed three white,
startled faces, too. A deep peal of thunder went rolling and
tumbling down the heavens and lost itself in sullen rumblings in
the distance. A sweep of chilly air passed by, rustling all the
leaves and snowing the flaky ashes broadcast about the fire.
Another fierce glare lit up the forest and an instant crash
followed that seemed to rend the tree-tops right over the boys'
heads. They clung together in terror, in the thick gloom that
followed. A few big rain-drops fell pattering upon the leaves.

"Quick! boys, go for the tent!" exclaimed Tom.

They sprang away, stumbling over roots and among vines in the
dark, no two plunging in the same direction. A furious blast roared
through the trees, making everything sing as it went. One blinding
flash after another came, and peal on peal of deafening thunder.
And now a drenching rain poured down and the rising hurricane drove
it in sheets along the ground. The boys cried out to each other,
but the roaring wind and the booming thunder-blasts drowned their
voices utterly. However, one by one they straggled in at last and
took shelter under the tent, cold, scared, and streaming with
water; but to have company in misery seemed something to be
grateful for. They could not talk, the old sail flapped so
furiously, even if the other noises would have allowed them. The
tempest rose higher and higher, and presently the sail tore loose
from its fastenings and went winging away on the blast. The boys
seized each others' hands and fled, with many tumblings and
bruises, to the shelter of a great oak that stood upon the
river-bank. Now the battle was at its highest. Under the ceaseless
conflagration of lightning that flamed in the skies, everything
below stood out in clean-cut and shadowless distinctness: the
bending trees, the billowy river, white with foam, the driving
spray of spume-flakes, the dim outlines of the high bluffs on the
other side, glimpsed through the drifting cloud-rack and the
slanting veil of rain. Every little while some giant tree yielded
the fight and fell crashing through the younger growth; and the
unflagging thunder-peals came now in ear-splitting explosive
bursts, keen and sharp, and unspeakably appalling. The storm
culminated in one matchless effort that seemed likely to tear the
island to pieces, burn it up, drown it to the tree-tops, blow it
away, and deafen every creature in it, all at one and the same
moment. It was a wild night for homeless young heads to be out
in.
