"Oh, won't it be fun! You going to have all the girls and
boys?"

"Yes, every one that's friends to me — or wants to be"; and she
glanced ever so furtively at Tom, but he talked right along to Amy
Lawrence about the terrible storm on the island, and how the
lightning tore the great sycamore tree "all to flinders" while he
was "standing within three feet of it."

"Oh, may I come?" said Grace Miller.

"Yes."

"And me?" said Sally Rogers.

"Yes."

"And me, too?" said Susy Harper. "And Joe?"

"Yes."

And so on, with clapping of joyful hands till all the group had
begged for invitations but Tom and Amy. Then Tom turned coolly
away, still talking, and took Amy with him. Becky's lips trembled
and the tears came to her eyes; she hid these signs with a forced
gayety and went on chattering, but the life had gone out of the
picnic, now, and out of everything else; she got away as soon as
she could and hid herself and had what her sex call "a good cry."
Then she sat moody, with wounded pride, till the bell rang. She
roused up, now, with a vindictive cast in her eye, and gave her
plaited tails a shake and said she knew what she'd do.

At recess Tom continued his flirtation with Amy with jubilant
self-satisfaction. And he kept drifting about to find Becky and
lacerate her with the performance. At last he spied her, but there
was a sudden falling of his mercury. She was sitting cosily on a
little bench behind the schoolhouse looking at a picture-book with
Alfred Temple — and so absorbed were they, and their heads so close
together over the book, that they did not seem to be conscious of
anything in the world besides. Jealousy ran red-hot through Tom's
veins. He began to hate himself for throwing away the chance Becky
had offered for a reconciliation. He called himself a fool, and all
the hard names he could think of. He wanted to cry with vexation.
Amy chatted happily along, as they walked, for her heart was
singing, but Tom's tongue had lost its function. He did not hear
what Amy was saying, and whenever she paused expectantly he could
only stammer an awkward assent, which was as often misplaced as
otherwise. He kept drifting to the rear of the schoolhouse, again
and again, to sear his eyeballs with the hateful spectacle there.
He could not help it. And it maddened him to see, as he thought he
saw, that Becky Thatcher never once suspected that he was even in
the land of the living. But she did see, nevertheless; and she knew
she was winning her fight, too, and was glad to see him suffer as
she had suffered.

Amy's happy prattle became intolerable. Tom hinted at things he
had to attend to; things that must be done; and time was fleeting.
But in vain — the girl chirped on. Tom thought, "Oh, hang her,
ain't I ever going to get rid of her?" At last he must be attending
to those things — and she said artlessly that she would be "around"
when school let out. And he hastened away, hating her for it.
