


Chapter

20

&#160;


There was something about Aunt Polly's manner, when she kissed
Tom, that swept away his low spirits and made him light-hearted and
happy again. He started to school and had the luck of coming upon
Becky Thatcher at the head of Meadow Lane. His mood always
determined his manner. Without a moment's hesitation he ran to her
and said:

"I acted mighty mean to-day, Becky, and I'm so sorry. I won't
ever, ever do that way again, as long as ever I live — please make
up, won't you?"

The girl stopped and looked him scornfully in the face:

"I'll thank you to keep yourself to yourself, Mr. Thomas Sawyer.
I'll never speak to you again."

She tossed her head and passed on. Tom was so stunned that he
had not even presence of mind enough to say "Who cares, Miss
Smarty?" until the right time to say it had gone by. So he said
nothing. But he was in a fine rage, nevertheless. He moped into the
schoolyard wishing she were a boy, and imagining how he would
trounce her if she were. He presently encountered her and delivered
a stinging remark as he passed. She hurled one in return, and the
angry breach was complete. It seemed to Becky, in her hot
resentment, that she could hardly wait for school to "take in," she
was so impatient to see Tom flogged for the injured spelling-book.
If she had had any lingering notion of exposing Alfred Temple,
Tom's offensive fling had driven it entirely away.

Poor girl, she did not know how fast she was nearing trouble
herself. The master, Mr. Dobbins, had reached middle age with an
unsatisfied ambition. The darling of his desires was, to be a
doctor, but poverty had decreed that he should be nothing higher
than a village schoolmaster. Every day he took a mysterious book
out of his desk and absorbed himself in it at times when no classes
were reciting. He kept that book under lock and key. There was not
an urchin in school but was perishing to have a glimpse of it, but
the chance never came. Every boy and girl had a theory about the
nature of that book; but no two theories were alike, and there was
no way of getting at the facts in the case. Now, as Becky was
passing by the desk, which stood near the door, she noticed that
the key was in the lock! It was a precious moment. She glanced
around; found herself alone, and the next instant she had the book
in her hands. The title-page — Professor Somebody's Anatomy —
carried no information to her mind; so she began to turn the
leaves. She came at once upon a handsomely engraved and colored
frontispiece — a human figure, stark naked. At that moment a shadow
fell on the page and Tom Sawyer stepped in at the door and caught a
glimpse of the picture. Becky snatched at the book to close it, and
had the hard luck to tear the pictured page half down the middle.
She thrust the volume into the desk, turned the key, and burst out
crying with shame and vexation.

