"Tom Sawyer, you are just as mean as you can be, to sneak up on
a person and look at what they're looking at."

"How could I know you was looking at anything?"

"You ought to be ashamed of yourself, Tom Sawyer; you know
you're going to tell on me, and oh, what shall I do, what shall I
do! I'll be whipped, and I never was whipped in school."

Then she stamped her little foot and said:

"Be so mean if you want to! I know something that's going to
happen. You just wait and you'll see! Hateful, hateful, hateful!" —
and she flung out of the house with a new explosion of crying.

Tom stood still, rather flustered by this onslaught. Presently
he said to himself:

"What a curious kind of a fool a girl is! Never been licked in
school! Shucks! What's a licking! That's just like a girl — they're
so thin-skinned and chicken-hearted. Well, of course I ain't going
to tell old Dobbins on this little fool, because there's other ways
of getting even on her, that ain't so mean; but what of it? Old
Dobbins will ask who it was tore his book. Nobody'll answer. Then
he'll do just the way he always does — ask first one and then
t'other, and when he comes to the right girl he'll know it, without
any telling. Girls' faces always tell on them. They ain't got any
backbone. She'll get licked. Well, it's a kind of a tight place for
Becky Thatcher, because there ain't any way out of it." Tom conned
the thing a moment longer, and then added: "All right, though;
she'd like to see me in just such a fix — let her sweat it
out!"

Tom joined the mob of skylarking scholars outside. In a few
moments the master arrived and school "took in." Tom did not feel a
strong interest in his studies. Every time he stole a glance at the
girls' side of the room Becky's face troubled him. Considering all
things, he did not want to pity her, and yet it was all he could do
to help it. He could get up no exultation that was really worthy
the name. Presently the spelling-book discovery was made, and Tom's
mind was entirely full of his own matters for a while after that.
Becky roused up from her lethargy of distress and showed good
interest in the proceedings. She did not expect that Tom could get
out of his trouble by denying that he spilt the ink on the book
himself; and she was right. The denial only seemed to make the
thing worse for Tom. Becky supposed she would be glad of that, and
she tried to believe she was glad of it, but she found she was not
certain. When the worst came to the worst, she had an impulse to
get up and tell on Alfred Temple, but she made an effort and forced
herself to keep still — because, said she to herself, "he'll tell
about me tearing the picture sure. I wouldn't say a word, not to
save his life!"

Tom took his whipping and went back to his seat not at all
broken-hearted, for he thought it was possible that he had
unknowingly upset the ink on the spelling-book himself, in some
skylarking bout — he had denied it for form's sake and because it
was custom, and had stuck to the denial from principle.

A whole hour drifted by, the master sat nodding in his throne,
the air was drowsy with the hum of study. By and by, Mr. Dobbins
straightened himself up, yawned, then unlocked his desk, and
reached for his book, but seemed undecided whether to take it out
or leave it. Most of the pupils glanced up languidly, but there
were two among them that watched his movements with intent eyes.
Mr. Dobbins fingered his book absently for a while, then took it
out and settled himself in his chair to read! Tom shot a glance at
Becky. He had seen a hunted and helpless rabbit look as she did,
with a gun levelled at its head. Instantly he forgot his quarrel
with her. Quick — something must be done! done in a flash, too! But
the very imminence of the emergency paralyzed his invention. Good!
— he had an inspiration! He would run and snatch the book, spring
through the door and fly. But his resolution shook for one little
instant, and the chance was lost — the master opened the volume. If
Tom only had the wasted opportunity back again! Too late. There was
no help for Becky now, he said. The next moment the master faced
the school. Every eye sank under his gaze. There was that in it
which smote even the innocent with fear. There was silence while
one might count ten — the master was gathering his wrath. Then he
spoke: "Who tore this book?"

There was not a sound. One could have heard a pin drop. The
stillness continued; the master searched face after face for signs
of guilt.
