
The procession moved along the main avenue some three-quarters
of a mile, and then groups and couples began to slip aside into
branch avenues, fly along the dismal corridors, and take each other
by surprise at points where the corridors joined again. Parties
were able to elude each other for the space of half an hour without
going beyond the "known" ground.

By-and-by, one group after another came straggling back to the
mouth of the cave, panting, hilarious, smeared from head to foot
with tallow drippings, daubed with clay, and entirely delighted
with the success of the day. Then they were astonished to find that
they had been taking no note of time and that night was about at
hand. The clanging bell had been calling for half an hour. However,
this sort of close to the day's adventures was romantic and
therefore satisfactory. When the ferryboat with her wild freight
pushed into the stream, nobody cared sixpence for the wasted time
but the captain of the craft.

Huck was already upon his watch when the ferryboat's lights went
glinting past the wharf. He heard no noise on board, for the young
people were as subdued and still as people usually are who are
nearly tired to death. He wondered what boat it was, and why she
did not stop at the wharf — and then he dropped her out of his mind
and put his attention upon his business. The night was growing
cloudy and dark. Ten o'clock came, and the noise of vehicles
ceased, scattered lights began to wink out, all straggling
foot-passengers disappeared, the village betook itself to its
slumbers and left the small watcher alone with the silence and the
ghosts. Eleven o'clock came, and the tavern lights were put out;
darkness everywhere, now. Huck waited what seemed a weary long
time, but nothing happened. His faith was weakening. Was there any
use? Was there really any use? Why not give it up and turn in?

A noise fell upon his ear. He was all attention in an instant.
The alley door closed softly. He sprang to the corner of the brick
store. The next moment two men brushed by him, and one seemed to
have something under his arm. It must be that box! So they were
going to remove the treasure. Why call Tom now? It would be absurd
— the men would get away with the box and never be found again. No,
he would stick to their wake and follow them; he would trust to the
darkness for security from discovery. So communing with himself,
Huck stepped out and glided along behind the men, cat-like, with
bare feet, allowing them to keep just far enough ahead not to be
invisible.

They moved up the river street three blocks, then turned to the
left up a cross-street. They went straight ahead, then, until they
came to the path that led up Cardiff Hill; this they took. They
passed by the old Welshman's house, half-way up the hill, without
hesitating, and still climbed upward. Good, thought Huck, they will
bury it in the old quarry. But they never stopped at the quarry.
They passed on, up the summit. They plunged into the narrow path
between the tall sumach bushes, and were at once hidden in the
gloom. Huck closed up and shortened his distance, now, for they
would never be able to see him. He trotted along awhile; then
slackened his pace, fearing he was gaining too fast; moved on a
piece, then stopped altogether; listened; no sound; none, save that
he seemed to hear the beating of his own heart. The hooting of an
owl came over the hill — ominous sound! But no footsteps. Heavens,
was everything lost! He was about to spring with winged feet, when
a man cleared his throat not four feet from him! Huck's heart shot
into his throat, but he swallowed it again; and then he stood there
shaking as if a dozen agues had taken charge of him at once, and so
weak that he thought he must surely fall to the ground. He knew
where he was. He knew he was within five steps of the stile leading
into Widow Douglas' grounds. Very well, he thought, let them bury
it there; it won't be hard to find.

Now there was a voice — a very low voice — Injun Joe's:

"Damn her, maybe she's got company — there's lights, late as it
is."

"I can't see any."

This was that stranger's voice — the stranger of the haunted
house. A deadly chill went to Huck's heart — this, then, was the
"revenge" job! His thought was, to fly. Then he remembered that the
Widow Douglas had been kind to him more than once, and maybe these
men were going to murder her. He wished he dared venture to warn
her; but he knew he didn't dare — they might come and catch him. He
thought all this and more in the moment that elapsed between the
stranger's remark and Injun Joe's next — which was —

"Because the bush is in your way. Now — this way — now you see,
don't you?"

