


Chapter

31

&#160;


Now to return to Tom and Becky's share in the picnic. They
tripped along the murky aisles with the rest of the company,
visiting the familiar wonders of the cave — wonders dubbed with
rather overdescriptive names, such as "The Drawing-Room," "The
Cathedral," "Aladdin's Palace," and so on. Presently the
hide-and-seek frolicking began, and Tom and Becky engaged in it
with zeal until the exertion began to grow a trifle wearisome; then
they wandered down a sinuous avenue holding their candles aloft and
reading the tangled web-work of names, dates, post-office
addresses, and mottoes with which the rocky walls had been frescoed
(in candle-smoke). Still drifting along and talking, they scarcely
noticed that they were now in a part of the cave whose walls were
not frescoed. They smoked their own names under an overhanging
shelf and moved on. Presently they came to a place where a little
stream of water, trickling over a ledge and carrying a limestone
sediment with it, had, in the slow-dragging ages, formed a laced
and ruffled Niagara in gleaming and imperishable stone. Tom
squeezed his small body behind it in order to illuminate it for
Becky's gratification. He found that it curtained a sort of steep
natural stairway which was enclosed between narrow walls, and at
once the ambition to be a discoverer seized him. Becky responded to
his call, and they made a smoke-mark for future guidance, and
started upon their quest. They wound this way and that, far down
into the secret depths of the cave, made another mark, and branched
off in search of novelties to tell the upper world about. In one
place they found a spacious cavern, from whose ceiling depended a
multitude of shining stalactites of the length and circumference of
a man's leg; they walked all about it, wondering and admiring, and
presently left it by one of the numerous passages that opened into
it. This shortly brought them to a bewitching spring, whose basin
was incrusted with a frostwork of glittering crystals; it was in
the midst of a cavern whose walls were supported by many fantastic
pillars which had been formed by the joining of great stalactites
and stalagmites together, the result of the ceaseless water-drip of
centuries. Under the roof vast knots of bats had packed themselves
together, thousands in a bunch; the lights disturbed the creatures
and they came flocking down by hundreds, squeaking and darting
furiously at the candles. Tom knew their ways and the danger of
this sort of conduct. He seized Becky's hand and hurried her into
the first corridor that offered; and none too soon, for a bat
struck Becky's light out with its wing while she was passing out of
the cavern. The bats chased the children a good distance; but the
fugitives plunged into every new passage that offered, and at last
got rid of the perilous things. Tom found a subterranean lake,
shortly, which stretched its dim length away until its shape was
lost in the shadows. He wanted to explore its borders, but
concluded that it would be best to sit down and rest awhile, first.
Now, for the first time, the deep stillness of the place laid a
clammy hand upon the spirits of the children. Becky said: "Why, I
didn't notice, but it seems ever so long since I heard any of the
others."

"Come to think, Becky, we are away down below them — and I don't
know how far away north, or south, or east, or whichever it is. We
couldn't hear them here."

Becky grew apprehensive.

"I wonder how long we've been down here, Tom? We better start
back."

"Yes, I reckon we better. P'raps we better."

"Can you find the way, Tom? It's all a mixed-up crookedness to
me."

