


Chapter

6

&#160;


Monday morning found Tom Sawyer miserable. Monday morning always
found him so â€” because it began another week's slow suffering in
school. He generally began that day with wishing he had had no
intervening holiday, it made the going into captivity and fetters
again so much more odious.

Tom lay thinking. Presently it occurred to him that he wished he
was sick; then he could stay home from school. Here was a vague
possibility. He canvassed his system. No ailment was found, and he
investigated again. This time he thought he could detect colicky
symptoms, and he began to encourage them with considerable hope.
But they soon grew feeble, and presently died wholly away. He
reflected further. Suddenly he discovered something. One of his
upper front teeth was loose. This was lucky; he was about to begin
to groan, as a "starter," as he called it, when it occurred to him
that if he came into court with that argument, his aunt would pull
it out, and that would hurt. So he thought he would hold the tooth
in reserve for the present, and seek further. Nothing offered for
some little time, and then he remembered hearing the doctor tell
about a certain thing that laid up a patient for two or three weeks
and threatened to make him lose a finger. So the boy eagerly drew
his sore toe from under the sheet and held it up for inspection.
But now he did not know the necessary symptoms. However, it seemed
well worth while to chance it, so he fell to groaning with
considerable spirit.

But Sid slept on unconscious.

Tom groaned louder, and fancied that he began to feel pain in
the toe.

No result from Sid.

Tom was panting with his exertions by this time. He took a rest
and then swelled himself up and fetched a succession of admirable
groans.

