


Chapter

9

&#160;


At half-past nine, that night, Tom and Sid were sent to bed, as
usual. They said their prayers, and Sid was soon asleep. Tom lay
awake and waited, in restless impatience. When it seemed to him
that it must be nearly daylight, he heard the clock strike ten!
This was despair. He would have tossed and fidgeted, as his nerves
demanded, but he was afraid he might wake Sid. So he lay still, and
stared up into the dark. Everything was dismally still. By and by,
out of the stillness, little, scarcely preceptible noises began to
emphasize themselves. The ticking of the clock began to bring
itself into notice. Old beams began to crack mysteriously. The
stairs creaked faintly. Evidently spirits were abroad. A measured,
muffled snore issued from Aunt Polly's chamber. And now the
tiresome chirping of a cricket that no human ingenuity could
locate, began. Next the ghastly ticking of a deathwatch in the wall
at the bed's head made Tom shudder â€” it meant that somebody's days
were numbered. Then the howl of a far-off dog rose on the night
air, and was answered by a fainter howl from a remoter distance.
Tom was in an agony. At last he was satisfied that time had ceased
and eternity begun; he began to doze, in spite of himself; the
clock chimed eleven, but he did not hear it. And then there came,
mingling with his half-formed dreams, a most melancholy
caterwauling. The raising of a neighboring window disturbed him. A
cry of "Scat! you devil!" and the crash of an empty bottle against
the back of his aunt's woodshed brought him wide awake, and a
single minute later he was dressed and out of the window and
creeping along the roof of the "ell" on all fours. He "meow'd" with
caution once or twice, as he went; then jumped to the roof of the
woodshed and thence to the ground. Huckleberry Finn was there, with
his dead cat. The boys moved off and disappeared in the gloom. At
the end of half an hour they were wading through the tall grass of
the graveyard.

It was a graveyard of the old-fashioned Western kind. It was on
a hill, about a mile and a half from the village. It had a crazy
board fence around it, which leaned inward in places, and outward
the rest of the time, but stood upright nowhere. Grass and weeds
grew rank over the whole cemetery. All the old graves were sunken
in, there was not a tombstone on the place; round-topped,
worm-eaten boards staggered over the graves, leaning for support
and finding none. "Sacred to the memory of" So-and-So had been
painted on them once, but it could no longer have been read, on the
most of them, now, even if there had been light.

A faint wind moaned through the trees, and Tom feared it might
be the spirits of the dead, complaining at being disturbed. The
boys talked little, and only under their breath, for the time and
the place and the pervading solemnity and silence oppressed their
spirits. They found the sharp new heap they were seeking, and
ensconced themselves within the protection of three great elms that
grew in a bunch within a few feet of the grave.

Then they waited in silence for what seemed a long time. The
hooting of a distant owl was all the sound that troubled the dead
stillness. Tom's reflections grew oppressive. He must force some
talk. So he said in a whisper:

"Hucky, do you believe the dead people like it for us to be
here?"

Huckleberry whispered:

