
"I reckon I ain't dressed fitten for a pirate," said he, with a
regretful pathos in his voice; "but I ain't got none but
these."

But the other boys told him the fine clothes would come fast
enough, after they should have begun their adventures. They made
him understand that his poor rags would do to begin with, though it
was customary for wealthy pirates to start with a proper
wardrobe.

Gradually their talk died out and drowsiness began to steal upon
the eyelids of the little waifs. The pipe dropped from the fingers
of the Red-Handed, and he slept the sleep of the conscience-free
and the weary. The Terror of the Seas and the Black Avenger of the
Spanish Main had more difficulty in getting to sleep. They said
their prayers inwardly, and lying down, since there was nobody
there with authority to make them kneel and recite aloud; in truth,
they had a mind not to say them at all, but they were afraid to
proceed to such lengths as that, lest they might call down a sudden
and special thunderbolt from heaven. Then at once they reached and
hovered upon the imminent verge of sleep — but an intruder came,
now, that would not "down." It was conscience. They began to feel a
vague fear that they had been doing wrong to run away; and next
they thought of the stolen meat, and then the real torture came.
They tried to argue it away by reminding conscience that they had
purloined sweetmeats and apples scores of times; but conscience was
not to be appeased by such thin plausibilities; it seemed to them,
in the end, that there was no getting around the stubborn fact that
taking sweetmeats was only "hooking," while taking bacon and hams
and such valuables was plain simple stealing — and there was a
command against that in the Bible. So they inwardly resolved that
so long as they remained in the business, their piracies should not
again be sullied with the crime of stealing. Then conscience
granted a truce, and these curiously inconsistent pirates fell
peacefully to sleep.




