


Chapter

5
Israel Hands


T
he wind, serving
us to a desire, now hauled into the west. We could run so much the
easier from the north-east corner of the island to the mouth of the
North Inlet. Only, as we had no power to anchor and dared not beach
her till the tide had flowed a good deal farther, time hung on our
hands. The coxswain told me how to lay the ship to; after a good
many trials I succeeded, and we both sat in silence over another
meal.

"Cap'n," said he at length with that same uncomfortable smile,
"here's my old shipmate, O'Brien; s'pose you was to heave him
overboard. I ain't partic'lar as a rule, and I don't take no blame
for settling his hash, but I don't reckon him ornamental now, do
you?"

"I'm not strong enough, and I don't like the job; and there he
lies, for me," said I.

"This here's an unlucky ship, this Hispaniola, Jim," he went on,
blinking. "There's a power of men been killed in this Hispaniola—a
sight o' poor seamen dead and gone since you and me took ship to
Bristol. I never seen sich dirty luck, not I. There was this here
O'Brien now—he's dead, ain't he? Well now, I'm no scholar, and
you're a lad as can read and figure, and to put it straight, do you
take it as a dead man is dead for good, or do he come alive
again?"

"You can kill the body, Mr. Hands, but not the spirit; you must
know that already," I replied. "O'Brien there is in another world,
and may be watching us."

"Ah!" says he. "Well, that's unfort'nate—appears as if killing
parties was a waste of time. Howsomever, sperrits don't reckon for
much, by what I've seen. I'll chance it with the sperrits, Jim. And
now, you've spoke up free, and I'll take it kind if you'd step down
into that there cabin and get me a—well, a—shiver my timbers! I
can't hit the name on 't; well, you get me a bottle of wine,
Jim—this here brandy's too strong for my head."

