


Chapter

6
The Fall of a Chieftain


T
here never was
such an overturn in this world. Each of these six men was as though
he had been struck. But with Silver the blow passed almost
instantly. Every thought of his soul had been set full-stretch,
like a racer, on that money; well, he was brought up, in a single
second, dead; and he kept his head, found his temper, and changed
his plan before the others had had time to realize the
disappointment.

"Jim," he whispered, "take that, and stand by for trouble."

And he passed me a double-barrelled pistol.

At the same time, he began quietly moving northward, and in a
few steps had put the hollow between us two and the other five.
Then he looked at me and nodded, as much as to say, "Here is a
narrow corner," as, indeed, I thought it was. His looks were not
quite friendly, and I was so revolted at these constant changes
that I could not forbear whispering, "So you've changed sides
again."

There was no time left for him to answer in. The buccaneers,
with oaths and cries, began to leap, one after another, into the
pit and to dig with their fingers, throwing the boards aside as
they did so. Morgan found a piece of gold. He held it up with a
perfect spout of oaths. It was a two-guinea piece, and it went from
hand to hand among them for a quarter of a minute.

"Two guineas!" roared Merry, shaking it at Silver. "That's your
seven hundred thousand pounds, is it? You're the man for bargains,
ain't you? You're him that never bungled nothing, you wooden-headed
lubber!"

