


Chapter

5
What I Heard in the Apple Barrel


"N
o, not I," said
Silver. "Flint was cap'n; I was quartermaster, along of my timber
leg. The same broadside I lost my leg, old Pew lost his deadlights.
It was a master surgeon, him that ampytated me—out of college and
all—Latin by the bucket, and what not; but he was hanged like a
dog, and sun-dried like the rest, at Corso Castle. That was
Roberts' men, that was, and comed of changing names to their
ships—Royal Fortune and so on. Now, what a ship was christened, so
let her stay, I says. So it was with the Cassandra, as brought us
all safe home from Malabar, after England took the viceroy of the
Indies; so it was with the old Walrus, Flint's old ship, as I've
seen amuck with the red blood and fit to sink with gold."

"Ah!" cried another voice, that of the youngest hand on board,
and evidently full of admiration. "He was the flower of the flock,
was Flint!"

"Davis was a man too, by all accounts," said Silver. "I never
sailed along of him; first with England, then with Flint, that's my
story; and now here on my own account, in a manner of speaking. I
laid by nine hundred safe, from England, and two thousand after
Flint. That ain't bad for a man before the mast—all safe in bank.
'Tain't earning now, it's saving does it, you may lay to that.
Where's all England's men now? I dunno. Where's Flint's? Why, most
on 'em aboard here, and glad to get the duff—been begging before
that, some on 'em. Old Pew, as had lost his sight, and might have
thought shame, spends twelve hundred pound in a year, like a lord
in Parliament. Where is he now? Well, he's dead now and under
hatches; but for two year before that, shiver my timbers, the man
was starving! He begged, and he stole, and he cut throats, and
starved at that, by the powers!"

"Well, it ain't much use, after all," said the young seaman.

"'Tain't much use for fools, you may lay to it—that, nor
nothing," cried Silver. "But now, you look here: you're young, you
are, but you're as smart as paint. I see that when I set my eyes on
you, and I'll talk to you like a man."

You may imagine how I felt when I heard this abominable old
rogue addressing another in the very same words of flattery as he
had used to myself. I think, if I had been able, that I would have
killed him through the barrel. Meantime, he ran on, little
supposing he was overheard.

