


Chapter

2
Narrative Continued by the Doctor: The Jolly-boat's Last Trip


T
his fifth trip was
quite different from any of the others. In the first place, the
little gallipot of a boat that we were in was gravely overloaded.
Five grown men, and three of them—Trelawney, Redruth, and the
captain—over six feet high, was already more than she was meant to
carry. Add to that the powder, pork, and bread-bags. The gunwale
was lipping astern. Several times we shipped a little water, and my
breeches and the tails of my coat were all soaking wet before we
had gone a hundred yards.

The captain made us trim the boat, and we got her to lie a
little more evenly. All the same, we were afraid to breathe.

In the second place, the ebb was now making—a strong rippling
current running westward through the basin, and then south'ard and
seaward down the straits by which we had entered in the morning.
Even the ripples were a danger to our overloaded craft, but the
worst of it was that we were swept out of our true course and away
from our proper landing-place behind the point. If we let the
current have its way we should come ashore beside the gigs, where
the pirates might appear at any moment.

"I cannot keep her head for the stockade, sir," said I to the
captain. I was steering, while he and Redruth, two fresh men, were
at the oars. "The tide keeps washing her down. Could you pull a
little stronger?"

"Not without swamping the boat," said he. "You must bear up,
sir, if you please—bear up until you see you're gaining." I tried
and found by experiment that the tide kept sweeping us westward
until I had laid her head due east, or just about right angles to
the way we ought to go.

"We'll never get ashore at this rate," said I.

