This happy state of things continued while the two ate the
supper; then, after a prayer before the shrine, the hermit put the
boy to bed, in a small adjoining room, tucking him in as snugly and
lovingly as a mother might; and so, with a parting caress, left him
and sat down by the fire, and began to poke the brands about in an
absent and aimless way. Presently he paused; then tapped his
forehead several times with his fingers, as if trying to recall
some thought which had escaped from his mind. &#160;Apparently he
was unsuccessful. &#160;Now he started quickly up, and entered his
guest's room, and said—

"Thou art King?"

"Yes," was the response, drowsily uttered.

"What King?"

"Of England."

"Of England? &#160;Then Henry is gone!"

"Alack, it is so. &#160;I am his son."

A black frown settled down upon the hermit's face, and he
clenched his bony hands with a vindictive energy. &#160;He stood a
few moments, breathing fast and swallowing repeatedly, then said in
a husky voice—

"Dost know it was he that turned us out into the world houseless
and homeless?"

There was no response. &#160;The old man bent down and scanned
the boy's reposeful face and listened to his placid breathing.
&#160;"He sleeps—sleeps soundly;" and the frown vanished away and
gave place to an expression of evil satisfaction. &#160;A smile
flitted across the dreaming boy's features. The hermit muttered,
"So—his heart is happy;" and he turned away. &#160;He went
stealthily about the place, seeking here and there for something;
now and then halting to listen, now and then jerking his head
around and casting a quick glance toward the bed; and always
muttering, always mumbling to himself. &#160;At last he found what
he seemed to want—a rusty old butcher knife and a whetstone.
&#160;Then he crept to his place by the fire, sat himself down, and
began to whet the knife softly on the stone, still muttering,
mumbling, ejaculating. &#160;The winds sighed around the lonely
place, the mysterious voices of the night floated by out of the
distances. &#160;The shining eyes of venturesome mice and rats
peered out at the old man from cracks and coverts, but he went on
with his work, rapt, absorbed, and noted none of these things.

At long intervals he drew his thumb along the edge of his knife,
and nodded his head with satisfaction. &#160;"It grows sharper," he
said; "yes, it grows sharper."
