Miles sprang forward, with a happy confidence, to meet her, but
she checked him with a hardly perceptible gesture, and he stopped
where he was. &#160;She seated herself, and asked him to do
likewise. Thus simply did she take the sense of old comradeship out
of him, and transform him into a stranger and a guest. &#160;The
surprise of it, the bewildering unexpectedness of it, made him
begin to question, for a moment, if he WAS the person he was
pretending to be, after all. &#160;The Lady Edith said—

"Sir, I have come to warn you. &#160;The mad cannot be persuaded
out of their delusions, perchance; but doubtless they may be
persuaded to avoid perils. &#160;I think this dream of yours hath
the seeming of honest truth to you, and therefore is not
criminal—but do not tarry here with it; for here it is dangerous."
&#160;She looked steadily into Miles's face a moment, then added,
impressively, "It is the more dangerous for that you ARE much like
what our lost lad must have grown to be if he had lived."

"Heavens, madam, but I AM he!"

"I truly think you think it, sir. &#160;I question not your
honesty in that; I but warn you, that is all. &#160;My husband is
master in this region; his power hath hardly any limit; the people
prosper or starve, as he wills. If you resembled not the man whom
you profess to be, my husband might bid you pleasure yourself with
your dream in peace; but trust me, I know him well; I know what he
will do; he will say to all that you are but a mad impostor, and
straightway all will echo him." &#160;She bent upon Miles that same
steady look once more, and added: &#160;"If you WERE Miles Hendon,
and he knew it and all the region knew it—consider what I am
saying, weigh it well—you would stand in the same peril, your
punishment would be no less sure; he would deny you and denounce
you, and none would be bold enough to give you countenance."

"Most truly I believe it," said Miles, bitterly. &#160;"The
power that can command one life-long friend to betray and disown
another, and be obeyed, may well look to be obeyed in quarters
where bread and life are on the stake and no cobweb ties of loyalty
and honour are concerned."

A faint tinge appeared for a moment in the lady's cheek, and she
dropped her eyes to the floor; but her voice betrayed no emotion
when she proceeded—

"I have warned you—I must still warn you—to go hence. &#160;This
man will destroy you, else. &#160;He is a tyrant who knows no pity.
&#160;I, who am his fettered slave, know this. &#160;Poor Miles,
and Arthur, and my dear guardian, Sir Richard, are free of him, and
at rest: &#160;better that you were with them than that you bide
here in the clutches of this miscreant. &#160;Your pretensions are
a menace to his title and possessions; you have assaulted him in
his own house: &#160;you are ruined if you stay. &#160;Go—do not
hesitate. If you lack money, take this purse, I beg of you, and
bribe the servants to let you pass. Oh, be warned, poor soul, and
escape while you may."

Miles declined the purse with a gesture, and rose up and stood
before her.

"Grant me one thing," he said. &#160;"Let your eyes rest upon
mine, so that I may see if they be steady. &#160;There—now answer
me. &#160;Am I Miles Hendon?"

"No. &#160;I know you not."

"Swear it!"
