


Chapter

32
Coronation Day


Let us go backward a few hours, and place ourselves in
Westminster Abbey, at four o'clock in the morning of this memorable
Coronation Day. &#160;We are not without company; for although it
is still night, we find the torch-lighted galleries already filling
up with people who are well content to sit still and wait seven or
eight hours till the time shall come for them to see what they may
not hope to see twice in their lives—the coronation of a King.
&#160;Yes, London and Westminster have been astir ever since the
warning guns boomed at three o'clock, and already crowds of
untitled rich folk who have bought the privilege of trying to find
sitting-room in the galleries are flocking in at the entrances
reserved for their sort.

The hours drag along tediously enough. &#160;All stir has ceased
for some time, for every gallery has long ago been packed. &#160;We
may sit, now, and look and think at our leisure. &#160;We have
glimpses, here and there and yonder, through the dim cathedral
twilight, of portions of many galleries and balconies, wedged full
with other people, the other portions of these galleries and
balconies being cut off from sight by intervening pillars and
architectural projections. &#160;We have in view the whole of the
great north transept—empty, and waiting for England's privileged
ones. &#160;We see also the ample area or platform, carpeted with
rich stuffs, whereon the throne stands. &#160;The throne occupies
the centre of the platform, and is raised above it upon an
elevation of four steps. Within the seat of the throne is enclosed
a rough flat rock—the stone of Scone—which many generations of
Scottish kings sat on to be crowned, and so it in time became holy
enough to answer a like purpose for English monarchs. &#160;Both
the throne and its footstool are covered with cloth of gold.

Stillness reigns, the torches blink dully, the time drags
heavily. But at last the lagging daylight asserts itself, the
torches are extinguished, and a mellow radiance suffuses the great
spaces. All features of the noble building are distinct now, but
soft and dreamy, for the sun is lightly veiled with clouds.

At seven o'clock the first break in the drowsy monotony occurs;
for on the stroke of this hour the first peeress enters the
transept, clothed like Solomon for splendour, and is conducted to
her appointed place by an official clad in satins and velvets,
whilst a duplicate of him gathers up the lady's long train, follows
after, and, when the lady is seated, arranges the train across her
lap for her. &#160;He then places her footstool according to her
desire, after which he puts her coronet where it will be convenient
to her hand when the time for the simultaneous coroneting of the
nobles shall arrive.

By this time the peeresses are flowing in in a glittering
stream, and the satin-clad officials are flitting and glinting
everywhere, seating them and making them comfortable. &#160;The
scene is animated enough now. &#160;There is stir and life, and
shifting colour everywhere. &#160;After a time, quiet reigns again;
for the peeresses are all come and are all in their places, a solid
acre or such a matter, of human flowers, resplendent in variegated
colours, and frosted like a Milky Way with diamonds. &#160;There
are all ages here: brown, wrinkled, white-haired dowagers who are
able to go back, and still back, down the stream of time, and
recall the crowning of Richard III. and the troublous days of that
old forgotten age; and there are handsome middle-aged dames; and
lovely and gracious young matrons; and gentle and beautiful young
girls, with beaming eyes and fresh complexions, who may possibly
put on their jewelled coronets awkwardly when the great time comes;
for the matter will be new to them, and their excitement will be a
sore hindrance. Still, this may not happen, for the hair of all
these ladies has been arranged with a special view to the swift and
successful lodging of the crown in its place when the signal
comes.

We have seen that this massed array of peeresses is sown thick
with diamonds, and we also see that it is a marvellous
spectacle—but now we are about to be astonished in earnest.
&#160;About nine, the clouds suddenly break away and a shaft of
sunshine cleaves the mellow atmosphere, and drifts slowly along the
ranks of ladies; and every rank it touches flames into a dazzling
splendour of many-coloured fires, and we tingle to our finger-tips
with the electric thrill that is shot through us by the surprise
and the beauty of the spectacle! &#160;Presently a special envoy
from some distant corner of the Orient, marching with the general
body of foreign ambassadors, crosses this bar of sunshine, and we
catch our breath, the glory that streams and flashes and palpitates
about him is so overpowering; for he is crusted from head to heel
with gems, and his slightest movement showers a dancing radiance
all around him.

Let us change the tense for convenience. &#160;The time drifted
along—one hour—two hours—two hours and a half; then the deep
booming of artillery told that the King and his grand procession
had arrived at last; so the waiting multitude rejoiced. &#160;All
knew that a further delay must follow, for the King must be
prepared and robed for the solemn ceremony; but this delay would be
pleasantly occupied by the assembling of the peers of the realm in
their stately robes. &#160;These were conducted ceremoniously to
their seats, and their coronets placed conveniently at hand; and
meanwhile the multitude in the galleries were alive with interest,
for most of them were beholding for the first time, dukes, earls,
and barons, whose names had been historical for five hundred years.
&#160;When all were finally seated, the spectacle from the
galleries and all coigns of vantage was complete; a gorgeous one to
look upon and to remember.
