
[1]

It is
most reasonable to regard the dress as copied from the costume of
the citizens of London of that period, when long blue coats were
the common habit of apprentices and serving-men, and yellow
stockings were generally worn; the coat fits closely to the body,
but has loose sleeves, and beneath is worn a sleeveless yellow
under-coat; around the waist is a red leathern girdle; a clerical
band around the neck, and a small flat black cap, about the size of
a saucer, completes the costume.—Timbs' Curiosities of
London.

[2]

It
appears that Christ's Hospital was not originally founded as a
SCHOOL; its object was to rescue children from the streets, to
shelter, feed, clothe them.—Timbs' Curiosities of
London.

[3]

The
King was now approaching fast towards his end; and fearing lest
Norfolk should escape him, he sent a message to the Commons, by
which he desired them to hasten the Bill, on pretence that Norfolk
enjoyed the dignity of Earl Marshal, and it was necessary to
appoint another, who might officiate at the ensuing ceremony of
installing his son Prince of Wales.—Hume's History of England, vol.
iii. p. 307.

[4]

It was
not till the end of this reign (Henry VIII.) that any salads,
carrots, turnips, or other edible roots were produced in England.
The little of these vegetables that was used was formerly imported
from Holland and Flanders. Queen Catherine, when she wanted a
salad, was obliged to despatch a messenger thither on
purpose.—Hume's History of England, vol. iii. p. 314.

[5]

James
I. and Charles II. had whipping-boys, when they were little
fellows, to take their punishment for them when they fell short in
their lessons; so I have ventured to furnish my small prince with
one, for my own purposes.

