
"I would I knew what 'tis about!" he exclaimed, with all a boy's
curiosity in such happenings.

"Thou art the King!" solemnly responded the Earl, with a
reverence. "Have I your Grace's leave to act?"

"O blithely, yes! &#160;O gladly, yes!" exclaimed Tom excitedly,
adding to himself with a lively sense of satisfaction, "In truth,
being a king is not all dreariness—it hath its compensations and
conveniences."

The Earl called a page, and sent him to the captain of the guard
with the order—

"Let the mob be halted, and inquiry made concerning the occasion
of its movement. &#160;By the King's command!"

A few seconds later a long rank of the royal guards, cased in
flashing steel, filed out at the gates and formed across the
highway in front of the multitude. &#160;A messenger returned, to
report that the crowd were following a man, a woman, and a young
girl to execution for crimes committed against the peace and
dignity of the realm.

Death—and a violent death—for these poor unfortunates! &#160;The
thought wrung Tom's heart-strings. &#160;The spirit of compassion
took control of him, to the exclusion of all other considerations;
he never thought of the offended laws, or of the grief or loss
which these three criminals had inflicted upon their victims; he
could think of nothing but the scaffold and the grisly fate hanging
over the heads of the condemned. &#160;His concern made him even
forget, for the moment, that he was but the false shadow of a king,
not the substance; and before he knew it he had blurted out the
command—

"Bring them here!"

Then he blushed scarlet, and a sort of apology sprung to his
lips; but observing that his order had wrought no sort of surprise
in the Earl or the waiting page, he suppressed the words he was
about to utter. &#160;The page, in the most matter-of-course way,
made a profound obeisance and retired backwards out of the room to
deliver the command. &#160;Tom experienced a glow of pride and a
renewed sense of the compensating advantages of the kingly office.
He said to himself, "Truly it is like what I was used to feel when
I read the old priest's tales, and did imagine mine own self a
prince, giving law and command to all, saying 'Do this, do that,'
whilst none durst offer let or hindrance to my will."

Now the doors swung open; one high-sounding title after another
was announced, the personages owning them followed, and the place
was quickly half-filled with noble folk and finery. &#160;But Tom
was hardly conscious of the presence of these people, so wrought up
was he and so intensely absorbed in that other and more interesting
matter. &#160;He seated himself absently in his chair of state, and
turned his eyes upon the door with manifestations of impatient
expectancy; seeing which, the company forbore to trouble him, and
fell to chatting a mixture of public business and court gossip one
with another.

