
The Ruffler sighed; the listeners sighed in sympathy; a general
depression fell upon the company for a moment, for even hardened
outcasts like these are not wholly dead to sentiment, but are able
to feel a fleeting sense of loss and affliction at wide intervals
and under peculiarly favouring circumstances—as in cases like to
this, for instance, when genius and culture depart and leave no
heir. &#160;However, a deep drink all round soon restored the
spirits of the mourners.

"Have any others of our friends fared hardly?" asked Hobbs.

"Some—yes. &#160;Particularly new comers—such as small
husbandmen turned shiftless and hungry upon the world because their
farms were taken from them to be changed to sheep ranges.
&#160;They begged, and were whipped at the cart's tail, naked from
the girdle up, till the blood ran; then set in the stocks to be
pelted; they begged again, were whipped again, and deprived of an
ear; they begged a third time—poor devils, what else could they
do?—and were branded on the cheek with a red-hot iron, then sold
for slaves; they ran away, were hunted down, and hanged. &#160;'Tis
a brief tale, and quickly told. &#160;Others of us have fared less
hardly. Stand forth, Yokel, Burns, and Hodge—show your
adornments!"

These stood up and stripped away some of their rags, exposing
their backs, criss-crossed with ropy old welts left by the lash;
one turned up his hair and showed the place where a left ear had
once been; another showed a brand upon his shoulder—the letter
V—and a mutilated ear; the third said—

"I am Yokel, once a farmer and prosperous, with loving wife and
kids—now am I somewhat different in estate and calling; and the
wife and kids are gone; mayhap they are in heaven, mayhap in—in the
other place—but the kindly God be thanked, they bide no more in
ENGLAND! &#160;My good old blameless mother strove to earn bread by
nursing the sick; one of these died, the doctors knew not how, so
my mother was burnt for a witch, whilst my babes looked on and
wailed. &#160;English law!—up, all, with your cups!—now all
together and with a cheer!—drink to the merciful English law that
delivered HER from the English hell! &#160;Thank you, mates, one
and all. &#160;I begged, from house to house—I and the wife—bearing
with us the hungry kids—but it was crime to be hungry in England—so
they stripped us and lashed us through three towns. &#160;Drink ye
all again to the merciful English law!—for its lash drank deep of
my Mary's blood and its blessed deliverance came quick. &#160;She
lies there, in the potter's field, safe from all harms. &#160;And
the kids—well, whilst the law lashed me from town to town, they
starved. Drink, lads—only a drop—a drop to the poor kids, that
never did any creature harm. &#160;I begged again—begged, for a
crust, and got the stocks and lost an ear—see, here bides the
stump; I begged again, and here is the stump of the other to keep
me minded of it. And still I begged again, and was sold for a
slave—here on my cheek under this stain, if I washed it off, ye
might see the red S the branding-iron left there! &#160;A SLAVE!
&#160;Do you understand that word? &#160;An English SLAVE!—that is
he that stands before ye. &#160;I have run from my master, and when
I am found—the heavy curse of heaven fall on the law of the land
that hath commanded it!—I shall hang!" {1}

A ringing voice came through the murky air—

"Thou shalt NOT!—and this day the end of that law is come!"

All turned, and saw the fantastic figure of the little King
approaching hurriedly; as it emerged into the light and was clearly
revealed, a general explosion of inquiries broke out—

"Who is it? &#160;WHAT is it? &#160;Who art thou, manikin?"

The boy stood unconfused in the midst of all those surprised and
questioning eyes, and answered with princely dignity—

