Hereupon a Councel was called, and the business debated; but
there were so many cross and different Opinions, that they could
not suddenly resolve what answer to send the Empress; at which she
grew angry, insomuch that she resolved to return into her Blazing-
World, without giving any assistance to her Countrymen: but the
Duchess of Newcastle intreated her Majesty to abate her passion;
for, said she, Great Councels are most commonly slow, because many
men have many several Opinions: besides, every Councellor striving
to be the wisest, makes long speeches, and raise many doubts, which
cause retardments. If I had long-speeched Councellors, replied the
Empress, I would hang them, by reason they give more Words, then
Advice. The Duchess answered, That her Majesty should not be angry,
but consider the differences of that and her Blazing-World; for,
said she, they are not both alike; but there are grosser and duller
understandings in this, than in the Blazing-World.

At last a Messenger came out, who returned the Empress thanks
for her kind proffer, but desired withal, to know from whence she
came, and how, and in what manner her assistance could be
serviceable to them? The Empress answered, That she was not bound
to tell them whence she came; but as for the manner of her
assistance, I will appear, said she, to your Navy in a splendorous
Light, surrounded with Fire. The Messenger asked at what time they
should expect her coming? I'le be with you, answered the Empress,
about one of the Clock at night. With this report the Messenger
returned; which made both the poor Councellors and Sea-men much
afraid; but yet they longed for the time to behold this strange
sight.

The appointed hour being come, the Empress appear'd with
Garments made of the Star-stone, and was born or supported above
the Water, upon the Fish- mens heads and backs, so that she seemed
to walk upon the face of the Water, and the Bird- and Fish-men
carried the Fire-stone, lighted both in the Air, and above the
Waters.

Which sight, when her Country-men perceived at a distance, their
hearts began to tremble; but coming something nearer, she left her
Torches, and appeared onely in her Garments of Light, like an
Angel, or some Deity, and all kneeled down before her, and
worshipped her with all submission and reverence: But&#160;the
Empress would not come nearer than at such a distance where her
voice might be generally heard, by reason she would not have that
any of her Accoustrements should be perceived, but the splendor
thereof; and when she was come so near that her voice could be
heard and understood by all, she made this following Speech:

Dear Country-men, for so you are, although you know me not; I
being a Native of this Kingdom, and hearing that most part of this
World had resolved to make Warr against it, and sought to destroy
it, at least to weaken its Naval Force and Power, have made a
Voyage out of another World, to lend you my assistance against your
Enemies. I come not to make bargains with you, or to regard my own
Interest more than your Safety; but I intend to make you the most
powerful Nation of this World, and therefore I have chosen rather
to quit my own Tranquility, Riches and Pleasure, than suffer you to
be ruined and destroyed. All the Return I desire, is but your
grateful acknowledgment, and to declare my Power, Love and Loyalty
to my Native Country: for, although I am now a Great and Absolute
Princess, and Empress of a whole World, yet I acknowledg, that once
I was a Subject of this Kingdom, which is but a small part of this
World; and therefore I will have you undoubtedly believe, that I
shall destroy all your Enemies before this following Night, I mean
those which trouble you by Sea; and if you have any&#160;by Land,
assure your self I shall also give you my assistance against them,
and make you triumph over all that seek your Ruine and
Destruction.

Upon this Declaration of the Empress, when both the General, and
all the Commanders in their several Ships, had return'd their
humble and hearty Thanks to Her Majesty for so great a favour to
them, she took her leave, and departed to her own Ships. But, good
Lord! what several Opinions and Judgments did this produce in the
minds of her Country-men! some said she was an Angel; others, she
was a sorceress; some believed her a Goddess; others said the Devil
deluded them in the shape of a fine Lady.

The morning after, when the Navies were to fight, the Empress
appear'd upon the face of the Waters, dress'd in her Imperial
Robes, which were all of Diamonds and Carbuncles; in one hand she
held a Buckler, made of one intire Carbuncle; and in the other hand
a Spear of one intire Diamond; on her head she had a Cap of
Diamonds, and just upon the top of the Crown, was a Starr made of
the Starr-stone, mentioned heretofore; and a Half-Moon made of the
same Stone, was placed on her forehead; all her other Garments were
of several sorts of precious Jewels; and having given her Fish-men
directions how to destroy the Enemies of her Native Country, she
proceeded to effect her design. The Fish-men were to carry
the&#160;Fire-stones in cases of Diamonds (for the Diamonds in the
Blazing-World, are in splendor so far beyond the Diamonds of this
World, as Peble-stones are to the best sort of this Worlds
Diamonds) and to uncase or uncover those Fire-stones no sooner but
when they were just under the Enemis Ships, or close at their
sides, and then to wet them, and set their Ships on fire; which was
no sooner done, but all the Enemie's Fleet was of a Flaming fire;
and coming to the place where the Powder was, it streight blew them
up; so that all the several Navies of the Enemies, were destroyed
in a short time: which when her Countrymen did see, they all cried
out with one voice, That she was an Angel sent from God to deliver
them out of the hands of their Enemies: Neither would she return
into the Blazing-World, until she had forced all the rest of the
World to submit to that same Nation.

In the mean time, the General of all their Naval Forces, sent to
their soveraign to acquaint him with their miraculous Delivery and
Conquest, and with the Empress's design of making him the most
powerful Monarch of all that World. After a short time, the Empress
sent her self, to the soveraign of that Nation to know in what she
could be serviceable to him; who returning her many thanks, both
for her assistance against his Enemies, and her kind proffer to do
him further service for the good and benefit of his Nations (for he
was King over several Kingdoms) sent her word,&#160;that although
she did partly destroy his Enemies by Sea, yet, they were so
powerful, that they did hinder the Trade and Traffick of his
Dominions. To which the Empress returned this answer, That she
would burn and sink all those Ships that would not pay him Tribute;
and forthwith sent to all the Neighbouring Nations, who had any
Traffick by Sea, desiring them to pay Tribute to the King and
soveraign of that Nation where she was born; But they denied it
with great scorn. Whereupon, she immediately commanded her
Fish-men, to destroy all strangers Ships that traffick'd on the
Seas; which they did according to the Empress's Command; and when
the Neighbouring Nations and Kingdoms perceived her power, they
were so discomposed in their affairs and designs, that they knew
not what to do: At last they sent to the Empress, and desired to
treat with her, but could get no other conditions then to submit
and pay Tribute to the said King and soveraign of her Native
Country, otherwise, she was resolved to ruin all their Trade and
Traffick by burning their Ships. Long was this Treaty, but in fine,
they could obtain nothing, so that at last they were inforced to
submit; by which the King of the mentioned Nations became absolute
Master of the Seas, and consequently of that World; by reason, as I
mentioned heretofore, the several Nations of that World could not
well live without Traffick and Commerce, by Sea, as well as by
Land.

But after a short time, those Neighbouring Nations finding
themselves so much inslaved, that they were hardly able to peep out
of their own Dominions without a chargeable Tribute, they all
agreed to join again their Forces against the King and soveraign of
the said Dominions; which when the Empress receiv'd notice of, she
sent out her Fish-men to destroy, as they had done before, the
remainder of all their Naval Power, by which they were soon forced
again to submit, except some Nations which could live without
Foreign Traffick, and some whose Trade and Traffick was meerly by
Land; these would no ways be Tributary to the mentioned King. The
Empress sent them word, That in case they did not submit to him,
she intended to fire all their Towns and Cities, and reduce them by
force, to what they would not yield with a good will. But they
rejected and scorned her Majesties Message, which provoked her
anger so much, that she resolved to send her Bird- and Worm men
thither, with order to begin first with their smaller Towns, and
set them on fire (for she was loath to make more spoil then she was
forced to do) and if they remain'd still obstinate in their
resolutions, to destroy also their greater Cities. The onely
difficulty was, how to convey the Worm-men conveniently to those
places; but they desired that her Majesty would but set them upon
any part of the Earth of those Nations,&#160;and they could travel
within the Earth as easily, and as nimbly as men upon the face of
the Earth; which the Empress did according to their desire.

But before both the Bird- and Worm-men began their journey, the
Empress commanded the Bearmen to view through their Telescopes what
Towns and Cities those were that would not submit; and having a
full information thereof, she instructed the Bird- and Bear-men
what Towns they should begin withal; in the mean while she sent to
all the Princes and soveraigns of those Nations, to let them know
that she would give them a proof of her Power, and check their
Obstinacies by burning some of their smaller Towns; and if they
continued still in their Obstinate Resolutions, that she would
convert their smaller Loss into a Total Ruin. she also commanded
her Bird-men to make their flight at night, lest they be perceived.
At last when both the Bird- and Worm-men came to the designed
places, the Worm-men laid some Fire-stones under the Foundation of
every House, and the Bird-men placed some at the tops of them, so
that both by rain, and by some other moisture within the Earth, the
stones could not fail of burning. The Bird-men in the mean time
having learned some few words of their Language, told them, That
the next time it did rain, their Towns would be all on fire; at
which they were amaz'd to hear Men speak in the air;
but&#160;withall they laughed when they heard them say that rain
should fire their Towns; knowing that the effect of Water was to
quench, not produce Fire.

At last a rain came, and upon a sudden all their Houses appeared
of a flaming Fire; and the more Water there was poured on them, the
more they did flame and burn; which struck such a Fright and Terror
into all the Neighbouring Cities, Nations and Kingdoms, that for
fear the like should happen to them, they and all the rest of the
parts of that World, granted the Empress's desire, and submitted to
the Monarch and sovereign of her Native Countrey, the King of Esfi;
save one, which having seldom or never any rain, but onely dews,
which would soon be spent in a great fire, slighted her Power: The
Empress being desirous to make it stoop as well as the rest, knew
that every year it was watered by a flowing Tide, which lasted some
Weeks; and although their Houses stood high from the ground, yet
they were built upon Supporters which were fixt into the ground.
Wherefore she commanded both her Bird- and Worm-men to lay some of
the Fire-stones at the bottom of those Supporters, and when the
Tide came in, all their Houses were of a Fire, which did so rarifie
the Water, that the Tide was soon turn'd into a Vapour, and this
Vapour again into Air; which caused not onely a destruction of
their Houses, but also a general barrenness&#160;over all their
Countrey that year, and forced them to submit, as well as the rest
of the World had done.
