


Chapter

4
The Third Son, Alyosha


HE was only twenty, his brother Ivan was in his twenty-fourth
year at the time, while their elder brother Dmitri was
twenty-seven. First of all, I must explain that this young man,
Alyosha, was not a fanatic, and, in my opinion at least, was not
even a mystic. I may as well give my full opinion from the
beginning. He was simply an early lover of humanity, and that he
adopted the monastic life was simply because at that time it struck
him, so to say, as the ideal escape for his soul struggling from
the darkness of worldly wickedness to the light of love. And the
reason this life struck him in this way was that he found in it at
that time, as he thought an extrordinary being, our celebrated
elder, Zossima, to whom he became attached with all the warm first
love of his ardent heart. But I do not dispute that he was very
strange even at that time, and had been so indeed from his cradle.
I have mentioned already, by the way, that though he lost his
mother in his fourth year he remembered her all his life her face,
her caresses, "as though she stood living before me." Such memories
may persist, as everyone knows, from an even earlier age, even from
two years old, but scarcely standing out through a whole lifetime
like spots of light out of darkness, like a corner torn out of a
huge picture, which has all faded and disappeared except that
fragment. That is how it was with him. He remembered one still
summer evening, an open window, the slanting rays of the setting
sun (that he recalled most vividly of all); in a corner of the room
the holy image, before it a lighted lamp, and on her knees before
the image his mother, sobbing hysterically with cries and moans,
snatching him up in both arms, squeezing him close till it hurt,
and praying for him to the Mother of God, holding him out in both
arms to the image as though to put him under the Mother's
protectionâ€¦ and suddenly a nurse runs in and snatches him from her
in terror. That was the picture! And Alyosha remembered his
mother's face at that minute. He used to say that it was frenzied
but beautiful as he remembered. But he rarely cared to speak of
this memory to anyone. In his childhood and youth he was by no
means expansive, and talked little indeed, but not from shyness or
a sullen unsociability; quite the contrary, from something
different, from a sort of inner preoccupation entirely personal and
unconcerned with other people, but so important to him that he
seemed, as it were, to forget others on account of it. But he was
fond of people: he seemed throughout his life to put implicit trust
in people: yet no one ever looked on him as a simpleton or naive
person. There was something about him which made one feel at once
(and it was so all his life afterwards) that he did not care to be
a judge of others that he would never take it upon himself to
criticise and would never condemn anyone for anything. He seemed,
indeed, to accept everything without the least condemnation though
often grieving bitterly: and this was so much so that no one could
surprise or frighten him even in his earliest youth. Coming at
twenty to his father's house, which was a very sink of filthy
debauchery, he, chaste and pure as he was, simply withdrew in
silence when to look on was unbearable, but without the slightest
sign of contempt or condemnation. His father, who had once been in
a dependent position, and so was sensitive and ready to take
offence, met him at first with distrust and sullenness. "He does
not say much," he used to say, "and thinks the more." But soon,
within a fortnight indeed, he took to embracing him and kissing him
terribly often, with drunken tears, with sottish sentimentality,
yet he evidently felt a real and deep affection for him, such as he
had never been capable of feeling for anyone before.

Everyone, indeed, loved this young man wherever he went, and it
was so from his earliest childhood. When he entered the household
of his patron and benefactor, Yefim Petrovitch Polenov, he gained
the hearts of all the family, so that they looked on him quite as
their own child. Yet he entered the house at such a tender age that
he could not have acted from design nor artfulness in winning
affection. So that the gift of making himself loved directly and
unconsciously was inherent in him, in his very nature, so to speak.
It was the same at school, though he seemed to be just one of those
children who are distrusted, sometimes ridiculed, and even disliked
by their schoolfellows. He was dreamy, for instance, and rather
solitary. From his earliest childhood he was fond of creeping into
a corner to read, and yet he was a general favourite all the while
he was at school. He was rarely playful or merry, but anyone could
see at the first glance that this was not from any sullenness. On
the contrary he was bright and good-tempered. He never tried to
show off among his schoolfellows. Perhaps because of this, he was
never afraid of anyone, yet the boys immediately understood that he
was not proud of his fearlessness and seemed to be unaware that he
was bold and courageous. He never resented an insult. It would
happen that an hour after the offence he would address the offender
or answer some question with as trustful and candid an expression
as though nothing had happened between them. And it was not that he
seemed to have forgotten or intentionally forgiven the affront, but
simply that he did not regard it as an affront, and this completely
conquered and captivated the boys. He had one characteristic which
made all his schoolfellows from the bottom class to the top want to
mock at him, not from malice but because it amused them. This
characteristic was a wild fanatical modesty and chastity. He could
not bear to hear certain words and certain conversations about
women. There are "certain" words and conversations unhappily
impossible to eradicate in schools. Boys pure in mind and heart,
almost children, are fond of talking in school among themselves,
and even aloud, of things, pictures, and images of which even
soldiers would sometimes hesitate to speak. More than that, much
that soldiers have no knowledge or conception of is familiar to
quite young children of our intellectual and higher classes. There
is no moral depravity, no real corrupt inner cynicism in it, but
there is the appearance of it, and it is often looked upon among
them as something refined, subtle, daring, and worthy of imitation.
Seeing that Alyosha Karamazov put his fingers in his ears when they
talked of "that," they used sometimes to crowd round him, pull his
hands away, and shout nastiness into both ears, while he struggled,
slipped to the floor, tried to hide himself without uttering one
word of abuse, enduring their insults in silence. But at last they
left him alone and gave up taunting him with being a "regular
girl," and what's more they looked upon it with compassion as a
weakness. He was always one of the best in the class but was never
first.

At the time of Yefim Petrovitch's death Alyosha had two more
years to complete at the provincial gymnasium. The inconsolable
widow went almost immediately after his death for a long visit to
Italy with her whole family, which consisted only of women and
girls. Alyosha went to live in the house of two distant relations
of Yefim Petrovitch, ladies whom he had never seen before. On what
terms she lived with them he did not know himself. It was very
characteristic of him, indeed, that he never cared at whose expense
he was living. In that respect he was a striking contrast to his
elder brother Ivan, who struggled with poverty for his first two
years in the university, maintained himself by his own efforts, and
had from childhood been bitterly conscious of living at the expense
of his benefactor. But this strange trait in Alyosha's character
must not, I think, criticised too severely, for at the slightest
acquaintance with him anyone would have perceived that Alyosha was
one of those youths, almost of the type of religious enthusiast,
who, if they were suddenly to come into possession of a large
fortune, would not hesitate to give it away for the asking, either
for good works or perhaps to a clever rogue. In general he seemed
scarcely to know the value of money, not, of course, in a literal
sense. When he was given pocket-money, which he never asked for, he
was either terribly careless of it so that it was gone in a moment,
or he kept it for weeks together, not knowing what to do with
it.

In later years Pyotr Alexandrovitch Miusov, a man very sensitive
on the score of money and bourgeois honesty, pronounced the
following judgment, after getting to know Alyosha:

"Here is perhaps the one man in the world whom you might leave
alone without a penny, in the centre of an unknown town of a
million inhabitants, and he would not come to harm, he would not
die of cold and hunger, for he would be fed and sheltered at once;
and if he were not, he would find a shelter for himself, and it
would cost him no effort or humiliation. And to shelter him would
be no burden, but, on the contrary, would probably be looked on as
a pleasure."

He did not finish his studies at the gymnasium. A year before
the end of the course he suddenly announced to the ladies that he
was going to see his father about a plan which had occurred to him.
They were sorry and unwilling to let him go. The journey was not an
expensive one, and the ladies would not let him pawn his watch, a
parting present from his benefactor's family. They provided him
liberally with money and even fitted him out with new clothes and
linen. But he returned half the money they gave him, saying that he
intended to go third class. On his arrival in the town he made no
answer to his father's first inquiry why he had come before
completing his studies, and seemed, so they say, unusually
thoughtful. It soon became apparent that he was looking for his
mother's tomb. He practically acknowledged at the time that that
was the only object of his visit. But it can hardly have been the
whole reason of it. It is more probable that he himself did not
understand and could not explain what had suddenly arisen in his
soul, and drawn him irresistibly into a new, unknown, but
inevitable path. Fyodor Pavlovitch could not show him where his
second wife was buried, for he had never visited her grave since he
had thrown earth upon her coffin, and in the course of years had
entirely forgotten where she was buried.

Fyodor Pavlovitch, by the way, had for some time previously not
been living in our town. Three or four years after his wife's death
he had gone to the south of Russia and finally turned up in Odessa,
where he spent several years. He made the acquaintance at first, in
his own words, "of a lot of low Jews, Jewesses, and Jewkins," and
ended by being received by "Jews high and low alike." It may be
presumed that at this period he developed a peculiar faculty for
making and hoarding money. He finally returned to our town only
three years before Alyosha's arrival. His former acquaintances
found him looking terribly aged, although he was by no means an old
man. He behaved not exactly with more dignity but with more
effrontery. The former buffoon showed an insolent propensity for
making buffoons of others. His depravity with women was not as it
used to be, but even more revolting. In a short time he opened a
great number of new taverns in the district. It was evident that he
had perhaps a hundred thousand roubles or not much less. Many of
the inhabitants of the town and district were soon in his debt,
and, of course, had given good security. Of late, too, he looked
somehow bloated and seemed more irresponsible, more uneven, had
sunk into a sort of incoherence, used to begin one thing and go on
with another, as though he were letting himself go altogether. He
was more and more frequently drunk. And, if it had not been for the
same servant Grigory, who by that time had aged considerably too,
and used to look after him sometimes almost like a tutor, Fyodor
Pavlovitch might have got into terrible scrapes. Alyosha's arrival
seemed to affect even his moral side, as though something had
awakened in this prematurely old man which had long been dead in
his soul.
