


Chapter

10
Both Together


widower, he has written, he is coming here, and, do you know,
we've loved him, none but him, all this time, and we've loved him
all our life! He will come, and Grushenka will be happy again. For
the last five years she's been wretched. But who can reproach her,
who can boast of her favour? Only that bedridden old merchant, but
he is more like her father, her friend, her protector. He found her
then in despair, in agony, deserted by the man she loved. She was
ready to drown herself then, but the old merchant saved her- saved
her!"

"You defend me very kindly, dear young lady. You are in a great
hurry about everything," Grushenka drawled again.

"Defend you! Is it for me to defend you? Should I dare to defend
you? Grushenka, angel, give me your hand. Look at that charming
soft little hand, Alexey Fyodorovitch! Look at it! It has brought
me happiness and has lifted me up, and I'm going to kiss it,
outside and inside, here, here, here!"

And three times she kissed the certainly charming, though rather
fat, hand of Grushenka in a sort of rapture. She held out her hand
with a charming musical, nervous little laugh, watched the "sweet
young lady," and obviously liked having her hand kissed.

"Perhaps there's rather too much rapture," thought Alyosha. He
blushed. He felt a peculiar uneasiness at heart the whole time.

"You won't make me blush, dear young lady, kissing my hand like
this before Alexey Fyodorovitch."

"Do you think I meant to make you blush?" said Katerina
Ivanovna, somewhat surprised. "Ah my dear, how little you
understand me!
