


Chapter

5
Elders


SOME of my readers may imagine that my young man was a sickly,
ecstatic, poorly developed creature, a pale, consumptive dreamer.
On the contrary, Alyosha was at this time a well-grown,
red-cheeked, clear-eyed lad of nineteen, radiant with health. He
was very handsome, too, graceful, moderately tall, with hair of a
dark brown, with a regular, rather long, oval-shaped face, and
wide-set dark grey, shining eyes; he was very thoughtful, and
apparently very serene. I shall be told, perhaps, that red cheeks
are not incompatible with fanaticism and mysticism; but I fancy
that Alyosha was more of a realist than anyone. Oh! no doubt, in
the monastery he fully believed in miracles, but, to my thinking,
miracles are never a stumbling-block to the realist. It is not
miracles that dispose realists to belief. The genuine realist, if
he is an unbeliever, will always find strength and ability to
disbelieve in the miraculous, and if he is confronted with a
miracle as an irrefutable fact he would rather disbelieve his own
senses than admit the fact. Even if he admits it, he admits it as a
fact of nature till then unrecognised by him. Faith does not, in
the realist, spring from the miracle but the miracle from faith. If
the realist once believes, then he is bound by his very realism to
admit the miraculous also. The Apostle Thomas said that he would
not believe till he saw, but when he did see he said, "My Lord and
my God!" Was it the miracle forced him to believe? Most likely not,
but he believed solely because he desired to believe and possibly
he fully believed in his secret heart even when he said, "I do not
believe till I see."

I shall be told, perhaps, that Alyosha was stupid, undeveloped,
had not finished his studies, and so on. That he did not finish his
studies is true, but to say that he was stupid or dull would be a
great injustice. I'll simply repeat what I have said above. He
entered upon this path only because, at that time, it alone struck
his imagination and presented itself to him as offering an ideal
means of escape for his soul from darkness to light. Add to that
that he was to some extent a youth of our last epoch- that is,
honest in nature, desiring the truth, seeking for it and believing
in it, and seeking to serve it at once with all the strength of his
soul, seeking for immediate action, and ready to sacrifice
everything, life itself, for it. Though these young men unhappily
fail to understand that the sacrifice of life is, in many cases,
the easiest of all sacrifices, and that to sacrifice, for instance,
five or six years of their seething youth to hard and tedious
study, if only to multiply tenfold their powers of serving the
truth and the cause they have set before them as their goal such a
sacrifice is utterly beyond the strength of many of them. The path
Alyosha chose was a path going in the opposite direction, but he
chose it with the same thirst for swift achievement. As soon as he
reflected seriously he was convinced of the existence of God and
immortality, and at once he instinctively said to himself: "I want
to live for immortality, and I will accept no compromise." In the
same way, if he had decided that God and immortality did not exist,
he would at once have become an atheist and a socialist. For
socialism is not merely the labour question, it is before all
things the atheistic question, the question of the form taken by
atheism to-day, the question of the tower of Babel built without
God, not to mount to heaven from earth but to set up heaven on
earth. Alyosha would have found it strange and impossible to go on
living as before. It is written: "Give all that thou hast to the
poor and follow Me, if thou wouldst be perfect."

Alyosha said to himself: "I can't give two roubles instead of
'all,' and only go to mass instead of 'following Him.'" Perhaps his
memories of childhood brought back our monastery, to which his
mother may have taken him to mass. Perhaps the slanting sunlight
and the holy image to which his poor "crazy" mother had held him up
still acted upon his imagination. Brooding on these things he may
have come to us perhaps only to see whether here he could sacrifice
all or only "two roubles," and in the monastery he met this elder.
I must digress to explain what an "elder" is in Russian
monasteries, and I am sorry that I do not feel very competent to do
so. I will try, however, to give a superficial account of it in a
few words. Authorities on the subject assert that the institution
of "elders" is of recent date, not more than a hundred years old in
our monasteries, though in the orthodox East, especially in Sinai
and Athos, it has existed over a thousand years. It is maintained
that it existed in ancient times in Russia also, but through the
calamities which overtook Russia- the Tartars, civil war, the
interruption of relations with the East after the destruction of
Constantinople- this institution fell into oblivion. It was revived
among us towards the end of last century by one of the great
"ascetics," as they called him, Paissy Velitchkovsky, and his
disciples. But to this day it exists in few monasteries only, and
has sometimes been almost persecuted as an innovation in Russia. It
flourished especially in the celebrated Kozelski Optin Monastery.
When and how it was introduced into our monastery I cannot say.
There had already been three such elders and Zossima was the last
of them. But he was almost dying of weakness and disease, and they
had no one to take his place. The question for our monastery was an
important one, for it had not been distinguished by anything in
particular till then: they had neither relics of saints, nor
wonder- working ikons, nor glorious traditions, nor historical
exploits. It had flourished and been glorious all over Russia
through its elders, to see and hear whom pilgrims had flocked for
thousands of miles from all parts.

What was such an elder? An elder was one who took your soul,
your will, into his soul and his will. When you choose an elder,
you renounce your own will and yield it to him in complete
submission, complete self-abnegation. This novitiate, this terrible
school of abnegation, is undertaken voluntarily, in the hope of
self-conquest, of self-mastery, in order, after a life of
obedience, to attain perfect freedom, that is, from self; to escape
the lot of those who have lived their whole life without finding
their true selves in themselves. This institution of elders is not
founded on theory, but was established in the East from the
practice of a thousand years. The obligations due to an elder are
not the ordinary "obedience" which has always existed in our
Russian monasteries. The obligation involves confession to the
elder by all who have submitted themselves to him, and to the
indissoluble bond between him and them.

The story is told, for instance, that in the early days of
Christianity one such novice, failing to fulfil some command laid
upon him by his elder, left his monastery in Syria and went to
Egypt. There, after great exploits, he was found worthy at last to
suffer torture and a martyr's death for the faith. When the Church,
regarding him as a saint, was burying him, suddenly, at the
deacon's exhortation, "Depart all ye unbaptised," the coffin
containing the martyr's body left its place and was cast forth from
the church, and this took place three times. And only at last they
learnt that this holy man had broken his vow of obedience and left
his elder, and, therefore, could not be forgiven without the
elder's absolution in spite of his great deeds. Only after this
could the funeral take place. This, of course, is only an old
legend. But here is a recent instance.

A monk was suddenly commanded by his elder to quit Athos, which
he loved as a sacred place and a haven of refuge, and to go first
to Jerusalem to do homage to the Holy Places and then to go to the
north to Siberia: "There is the place for thee and not here." The
monk, overwhelmed with sorrow, went to the Oecumenical Patriarch at
Constantinople and besought him to release him from his obedience.
But the Patriarch replied that not only was he unable to release
him, but there was not and could not be on earth a power which
could release him except the elder who had himself laid that duty
upon him. In this way the elders are endowed in certain cases with
unbounded and inexplicable authority. That is why in many of our
monasteries the institution was at first resisted almost to
persecution. Meantime the elders immediately began to be highly
esteemed among the people. Masses of the ignorant people as well as
of distinction flocked, for instance, to the elders of our
monastery to confess their doubts, their sins, and their
sufferings, and ask for counsel and admonition. Seeing this, the
opponents of the elders declared that the sacrament of confession
was being arbitrarily and frivolously degraded, though the
continual opening of the heart to the elder by the monk or the
layman had nothing of the character of the sacrament. In the end,
however, the institution of elders has been retained and is
becoming established in Russian monasteries. It is true, perhaps,
that this instrument which had stood the test of a thousand years
for the moral regeneration of a man from slavery to freedom and to
moral perfectibility may be a two-edged weapon and it may lead some
not to humility and complete self-control but to the most Satanic
pride, that is, to bondage and not to freedom.

The elder Zossima was sixty-five. He came of a family of
landowners, had been in the army in early youth, and served in the
Caucasus as an officer. He had, no doubt, impressed Alyosha by some
peculiar quality of his soul. Alyosha lived in the cell of the
elder, who was very fond of him and let him wait upon him. It must
be noted that Alyosha was bound by no obligation and could go where
he pleased and be absent for whole days. Though he wore the
monastic dress it was voluntarily, not to be different from others.
No doubt he liked to do so. Possibly his youthful imagination was
deeply stirred by the power and fame of his elder. It was said that
so many people had for years past come to confess their sins to
Father Zossima and to entreat him for words of advice and healing,
that he had acquired the keenest intuition and could tell from an
unknown face what a new-comer wanted, and what was the suffering on
his conscience. He sometimes astounded and almost alarmed his
visitors by his knowledge of their secrets before they had spoken a
word.
