"Are your people expecting you, my son?"

Alyosha hesitated.

"Haven't they need of you? Didn't you promise someone yesterday
to see them to-day?"

"I did promise- to my father- my brothers- others too."

"You see, you must go. Don't grieve. Be sure I shall not die
without your being by to hear my last word. To you I will say that
word, my son, it will be my last gift to you. To you, dear son,
because you love me. But now go to keep your promise."

Alyosha immediately obeyed, though it was hard to go. But the
promise that he should hear his last word on earth, that it should
be the last gift to him, Alyosha, sent a thrill of rapture through
his soul. He made haste that he might finish what he had to do in
the town and return quickly. Father Paissy, too, uttered some words
of exhortation which moved and surprised him greatly. He spoke as
they left the cell together.

"Remember, young man, unceasingly," Father Paissy began, without
preface, "that the science of this world, which has become a great
power, has, especially in the last century, analysed everything
divine handed down to us in the holy books. After this cruel
analysis the learned of this world have nothing left of all that
was sacred of old. But they have only analysed the parts and
overlooked the whole, and indeed their blindness is marvellous. Yet
the whole still stands steadfast before their eyes, and the gates
of hell shall not prevail against it. Has it not lasted nineteen
centuries, is it not still a living, a moving power in the
individual soul and in the masses of people? It is still as strong
and living even in the souls of atheists, who have destroyed
everything! For even those who have renounced Christianity and
attack it, in their inmost being still follow the Christian ideal,
for hitherto neither their subtlety nor the ardour of their hearts
has been able to create a higher ideal of man and of virtue than
the ideal given by Christ of old. When it has been attempted, the
result has been only grotesque. Remember this especially, young
man, since you are being sent into the world by your departing
elder. Maybe, remembering this great day, you will not forget my
words, uttered from the heart for your guidance, seeing you are
young, and the temptations of the world are great and beyond your
strength to endure. Well, now go, my orphan."

With these words Father Paissy blessed him. As Alyosha left the
monastery and thought them over, he suddenly realised that he had
met a new and unexpected friend, a warmly loving teacher, in this
austere monk who had hitherto treated him sternly. It was as though
Father Zossima had bequeathed him to him at his death, and "perhaps
that's just what had passed between them," Alyosha thought
suddenly. The philosophic reflections he had just heard so
unexpectedly testified to the warmth of Father Paissy's heart. He
was in haste to arm the boy's mind for conflict with temptation and
to guard the young soul left in his charge with the strongest
defence he could imagine.




