


Chapter

2
At
His Father's


FIRST of all, Alyosha went to his father. On the way he
remembered that his father had insisted the day before that he
should come without his brother Ivan seeing him. "Why so?" Alyosha
wondered suddenly. "Even if my father has something to say to me
alone, why should I go in unseen? Most likely in his excitement
yesterday he meant to say something different," he decided. Yet he
was very glad when Marfa Ignatyevna, who opened the garden gate to
him (Grigory, it appeared, was ill in bed in the lodge), told him
in answer to his question that Ivan Fyodorovitch had gone out two
hours ago.

"And my father?"

"He is up, taking his coffee," Marfa answered somewhat
drily.

Alyosha went in. The old man was sitting alone at the table
wearing slippers and a little old overcoat. He was amusing himself
by looking through some accounts, rather inattentively however. He
was quite alone in the house, for Smerdyakov too had gone out
marketing. Though he had got up early and was trying to put a bold
face on it, he looked tired and weak. His forehead, upon which huge
purple bruises had come out during the night, was bandaged with a
red handkerchief; his nose too was swollen terribly in the night,
and some smaller bruises covered it in patches, giving his whole
face a peculiarly spiteful and irritable look. The old man was
aware of this, and turned a hostile glance on Alyosha as he came
in.

"The coffee is cold," he cried harshly; "I won't offer you any.
I've ordered nothing but a Lenten fish soup to-day, and I don't
invite anyone to share it. Why have you come?"

"To find out how you are," said Alyosha.

"Yes. Besides, I told you to come yesterday. It's all of no
consequence. You need not have troubled. But I knew you'd come
poking in directly."
