


Chapter

5
A
Laceration in the Drawing-Room


BUT in the drawing-room the conversation was already over.
Katerina Ivanovna was greatly excited, though she looked resolute.
At the moment Alyosha and Madame Hohlakov entered, Ivan
Fyodorovitch stood up to take leave. His face was rather pale, and
Alyosha looked at him anxiously. For this moment was to solve a
doubt, a harassing enigma which had for some time haunted Alyosha.
During the preceding month it had been several times suggested to
him that his brother Ivan was in love with Katerina Ivanovna, and,
what was more, that he meant "to carry her off from Dmitri. Until
quite lately the idea seemed to Alyosha monstrous, though it
worried him extremely. He loved both his brothers, and dreaded such
rivalry between them. Meantime, Dmitri had said outright on the
previous day that he was glad that Ivan was his rival, and that it
was a great assistance to him, Dmitri. In what way did it assist
him? To marry Grushenka? But that Alyosha considered the worst
thing possible. Besides all this, Alyosha had till the evening
before implicitly believed that Katerina Ivanovna had a steadfast
and passionate love for Dmitri; but he had only believed it till
the evening before. He had fancied, too, that she was incapable of
loving a man like Ivan, and that she did love Dmitri, and loved him
just as he was, in spite of all the strangeness of such a
passion.

But during yesterday's scene with Grushenka another idea had
struck him. The word "lacerating," which Madame Hohlakov had just
uttered, almost made him start, because half waking up towards
daybreak that night he had cried out "Laceration, laceration,"
probably applying it to his dream. He had been dreaming all night
of the previous day's scene at Katerina Ivanovna's. Now Alyosha was
impressed by Madame Hohlakov's blunt and persistent assertion that
Katerina Ivanovna was in love with Ivan, and only deceived herself
through some sort of pose, from "self-laceration," and tortured
herself by her pretended love for Dmitri from some fancied duty of
gratitude. "Yes," he thought, "perhaps the whole truth lies in
those words." But in that case what was Ivan's position? Alyosha
felt instinctively that a character like Katerina Ivanovna's must
dominate, and she could only dominate someone like Dmitri, and
never a man like Ivan. For Dmitri might- at last submit to her
domination "to his own happiness" (which was what Alyosha would
have desired), but Ivan- no, Ivan could not submit to her, and such
submission would not give him happiness. Alyosha could not help
believing that of Ivan. And now all these doubts and reflections
flitted through his mind as he entered the drawing-room. Another
idea, too, forced itself upon him: "What if she loved neither of
them- neither Ivan nor Dmitri?"

It must be noted that Alyosha felt as it were ashamed of his own
thoughts and blamed himself when they kept recurring to him during
the last month. "What do I know about love and women and how can I
decide such questions?" he thought reproachfully, after such doubts
and surmises. And yet it was impossible not to think about it. He
felt instinctively that this rivalry was of immense importance in
his brothers' lives and that a great deal depended upon it.

"One reptile will devour the other," Ivan had pronounced the day
before, speaking in anger of his father and Dmitri. So Ivan looked
upon Dmitri as a reptile, and perhaps long done so. Was it perhaps
since he had known Katerina Ivanovna? That phrase had, of course,
escaped Ivan unawares yesterday, but that only made it more
important. If he felt like that, what chance was there of peace?
Were there not, on the contrary, new grounds for hatred and
hostility in their family? And with which of them was Alyosha to
sympathise? And what was he to wish for each of them? He loved them
both, but what could he desire for each in the midst of these
conflicting interests? He might go quite astray in this maze, and
Alyosha's heart could not endure uncertainty, because his love was
always of an active character. He was incapable of passive love. If
he loved anyone, he set to work at once to help him. And to do so
he must know what he was aiming at; he must know for certain what
was best for each, and having ascertained this it was natural for
him to help them both. But instead of a definite aim, he found
nothing but uncertainty and perplexity on all sides. "It was
lacerating," as was said just now. But what could he understand
even in this "laceration"? He did not understand the first word in
this perplexing maze.

Seeing Alyosha, Katerina Ivanovna said quickly and joyfully to
Ivan, who had already got up to go, "A minute! Stay another minute!
I want to hear the opinion of this person here whom I trust
absolutely. Don't go away," she added, addressing Madame Hohlakov.
She made Alyosha sit down beside her, and Madame Hohlakov sat
opposite, by Ivan.

"You are all my friends here, all I have in the world, dear
friends," she warmly, in a voice which quivered with genuine tears
of suffering, and Alyosha's heart warmed to her at once. "You,
Alexey Fyodorovitch, were witness yesterday of that abominable
scene, and saw what I did. You did not see it, Ivan Fyodorovitch,
he did. What he thought of me yesterday I don't know. I only know
one thing, that if it were repeated to-day, this minute, I should
express the same feelings again as yesterday- the same feelings,
the same words, the same actions. You remember my actions, Alexey
Fyodorovitch; you checked me in one of them"â€¦ (as she said that,
she flushed and her eyes shone). "I must tell you that I can't get
over it. Listen, Alexey Fyodorovitch. I don't even know whether I
still love him. I feel pity for him, and that is a poor sign of
love. If I loved him, if I still loved him, perhaps I shouldn't be
sorry for him now, but should hate him"

.Her voice quivered and tears glittered on her eyelashes.
Alyosha shuddered inwardly. "That girl is truthful and sincere," he
thought, "and she does not love Dmitri any more."
