he added,
with a forced smile, showing, however, that he could read Schiller,
and read him till he knew him by heart- which Alyosha would never
have believed. He went out of the room without saying good-bye even
to his hostess, Madame Hohlakov. Alyosha clasped his hands. "Ivan!"
he cried desperately after him. "Come back, Ivan! No, nothing will
induce him to come back now!" he cried again, regretfully realising
it; "but it's my fault, my fault. I began it! Ivan spoke angrily,
wrongly. Unjustly and angrily. He must come back here, come back,"
Alyosha kept exclaiming frantically. Katerina Ivanovna went
suddenly into the next room. "You have done no harm. You behaved
beautifully, like an angel," Madame Hohlakov whispered rapidly and
ecstatically to Alyosha. "I will do my utmost to prevent Ivan
Fyodorovitch from going." Her face beamed with delight, to the
great distress of Alyosha, but Katerina Ivanovna suddenly returned.
She had two hundred-rouble notes in her hand. "I have a great
favour to ask of you, Alexey Fyodorovitch," she began, addressing
Alyosha with an apparently calm and even voice, as though nothing
had happened. "A week- yes, I think it was a week ago- Dmitri
Fyodorovitch was guilty of a hasty and unjust action- a very ugly
action. There is a low tavern here, and in it he met that
discharged officer, that captain, whom your father used to employ
in some business. Dmitri Fyodorovitch somehow lost his temper with
this captain, seized him by the beard and dragged him out into the
street and for some distance along it, in that insulting fashion.
And I am told that his son, a boy, quite a child, who is at the
school here, saw it and ran beside them crying and begging for his
father, appealing to everyone to defend him, while everyone
laughed. You must forgive me, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I cannot think
without indignation of that disgraceful action of his… one of those
actions of which only Dmitri Fyodorovitch would be capable in his
anger… and in his passions! I can't describe it even… . I can't
find my words. I've made inquiries about his victim, and find he is
quite a poor man. His name is Snegiryov. He did something wrong in
the army and was discharged. I can't tell you what. And now he has
sunk into terrible destitution, with his family- an unhappy family
of sick children, and, I believe, an insane wife. He has been
living here a long time; he used to work as a copying clerk, but
now he is getting nothing. I thought if you… that is I thought… I
don't know. I am so confused. You see, I wanted to ask you, my dear
Alexey Fyodorovitch, to go to him, to find some excuse to go to
them- I mean to that captain- oh, goodness, how badly I explain
it!- and delicately, carefully, as only you know how to" (Alyosha
blushed), "manage to give him this assistance, these two hundred
roubles. He will be sure to take it… . I mean, persuade him to take
it… . Or, rather, what do I mean? You see it's not by way of
compensation to prevent him from taking proceedings (for I believe
he meant to), but simply a token of sympathy, of a desire to assist
him from me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch's betrothed, not from himself… .
But you know… . I would go myself, but you'll know how to do it
ever so much better. He lives in Lake Street in the house of a
woman called Kalmikov… . For God's sake, Alexey Fyodorovitch, do it
for me, and now… now I am rather… tired… Good-bye!" She turned and
disappeared behind the portiere so quickly that Alyosha had not
time to utter a word, though he wanted to speak. He longed to beg
her pardon, to blame himself, to say something, for his heart was
full and he could not bear to go out of the room without it. But
Madame Hohlakov took him by the hand and drew him along with her.
In the hall she stopped him again as before. "She is proud, she is
struggling with herself; but kind, charming, generous, "she
exclaimed, in a half-whisper. "Oh, how I love her, especially
sometimes, and how glad I am again of everything! Dear Alexey
Fyodorovitch, you didn't know, but I must tell you, that we all,
all- both her aunts, I and all of us, Lise, even- have been hoping
and praying for nothing for the last month but that she may give up
your favourite Dmitri, who takes no notice of her and does not care
for her, and may marry Ivan Fyodorovitch- such an excellent and
cultivated young man, who loves her more than anything in the
world. We are in a regular plot to bring it about, and I am even
staying on here perhaps on that account." "But she has been crying-
she has been wounded again," cried Alyosha. "Never trust a woman's
tears, Alexey Fyodorovitch. I am never for the women in such cases.
I am always on the side of the men." "Mamma, you are spoiling him,"
Lise's little voice cried from behind the door. "No, it was all my
fault. I am horribly to blame," Alyosha repeated unconsoled, hiding
his face in his hands in an agony of remorse for his indiscretion.
"Quite the contrary; you behaved like an angel, like an angel. I am
ready to say so a thousand times over." "Mamma, how has he behaved
like an angel?" Lise's voice was heard again. "I somehow fancied
all at once," Alyosha went on as though he had not heard Lise,
"that she loved Ivan, and so I said that stupid thing… . What will
happen now?" "To whom, to whom?" cried Lise. "Mamma, you really
want to be the death of me. I ask you and you don't answer." At the
moment the maid ran in. "Katerina Ivanovna is ill… . She is crying,
struggling… hysterics." "What is the matter?" cried Lise, in a tone
of real anxiety. "Mamma, I shall be having hysterics, and not she!"
"Lise, for mercy's sake, don't scream, don't persecute me. At your
age one can't know everything that grown-up people know. I'll come
and tell you everything you ought to know. Oh, mercy on us! I am
coming, I am coming… . Hysterics is a good sign, Alexey
Fyodorovitch; it's an excellent thing that she is hysterical.
That's just as it ought to be. In such cases I am always against
the woman, against all these feminine tears and hysterics. Run and
say, Yulia, that I'll fly to her. As for Ivan Fyodorovitch's going
away like that, it's her own fault. But he won't go away. Lise, for
mercy's sake, don't scream! Oh, yes; you are not screaming. It's I
am screaming. Forgive your mamma; but I am delighted, delighted,
delighted! Did you notice, Alexey Fyodorovitch, how young, how
young Ivan Fyodorovitch was just now when he went out, when he said
all that and went out? I thought he was so learned, such a savant,
and all of a sudden he behaved so warmly, openly, and youthfully,
with such youthful inexperience, and it was all so fine, like you…
. And the way he repeated that German verse, it was just like you!
But I must fly, I must fly! Alexey Fyodorovitch, make haste to
carry out her commission, and then make haste back. Lise, do you
want anything now? For mercy's sake, don't keep Alexey Fyodorovitch
a minute. He will come back to you at once." Madame Hohlakov at
last ran off. Before leaving, Alyosha would have opened the door to
see Lise. "On no account," cried Lise. "On no account now. Speak
through the door. How have you come to be an angel? That's the only
thing I want to know." "For an awful piece of stupidity, Lise!
Goodbye!" "Don't dare to go away like that!" Lise was beginning.
"Lise, I have a real sorrow! I'll be back directly, but I have a
great, great sorrow! And he ran out of the room.




