"And in all nature there was naught

That could find favour in his eyes- or rather in the feminine-
that could find favour in her eyes- . But now let me present you to
my wife, Arina Petrovna. She is crippled, she is forty-three; she
can move, but very little. She is of humble origin. Arina Petrovna,
compose your countenance. This is Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov.
Get up, Alexey Fyodorovitch." He took him by the hand and with
unexpected force pulled him up. "You must stand up to be introduced
to a lady. It's not the Karamazov, mamma, who… h'm… etcetera, but
his brother, radiant with modest virtues. Come, Arina Petrovna,
come, mamma, first your hand to be kissed."

And he kissed his wife's hand respectfully and even tenderly.
The girl at the window turned her back indignantly on the scene; an
expression of extraordinary cordiality came over the haughtily
inquiring face of the woman.

"Good morning! Sit down, Mr. Tchernomazov," she said.

"Karamazov, mamma, Karamazov. We are of humble origin," he
whispered again.

"Well, Karamazov, or whatever it is, but I always think of
Tchermomazov… . Sit down. Why has he pulled you up? He calls me
crippled, but I am not, only my legs are swollen like barrels, and
I am shrivelled up myself. Once I used to be so fat, but now it's
as though I had swallowed a needle."

"We are of humble origin," the captain muttered again.

"Oh, father, father!" the hunchback girl, who had till then been
silent on her chair, said suddenly, and she hid her eyes in her
handkerchief.

"Buffoon!" blurted out the girl at the window.

"Have you heard our news?" said the mother, pointing at her
daughters. "It's like clouds coming over; the clouds pass and we
have music again. When we were with the army, we used to have many
such guests. I don't mean to make any comparisons; everyone to
their taste. The deacon's wife used to come then and say, 'Alexandr
Alexandrovitch is a man of the noblest heart, but Nastasya
Petrovna,' she would say, 'is of the brood of hell.' 'Well,' I
said, 'that's a matter of taste; but you are a little spitfire.'
'And you want keeping in your place;' says she. 'You black sword,'
said I, 'who asked you to teach me?' 'But my breath,' says she, 'is
clean, and yours is unclean.' 'You ask all the officers whether my
breath is unclean.' And ever since then I had it in my mind. Not
long ago I was sitting here as I am now, when I saw that very
general come in who came here for Easter, and I asked him: 'Your
Excellency,' said I, 'can a lady's breath be unpleasant?' 'Yes,' he
answered; 'you ought to open a window-pane or open the door, for
the air is not fresh here.' And they all go on like that! And what
is my breath to them? The dead smell worse still!. 'I won't spoil
the air,' said I, 'I'll order some slippers and go away.' My
darlings, don't blame your own mother! Nikolay Ilyitch, how is it I
can't please you? There's only Ilusha who comes home from school
and loves me. Yesterday he brought me an apple. Forgive your own
mother- forgive a poor lonely creature! Why has my breath become
unpleasant to you?"

And the poor mad woman broke into sobs, and tears streamed down
her cheeks. The captain rushed up to her.
