
"Were you very anxious to see me, then?"

"Very. I want to get to know you once for all, and I want you to
know me. And then to say good-bye. I believe it's always best to
get to know people just before leaving them. I've noticed how
you've been looking at me these three months. There has been a
continual look of expectation in your eyes, and I can't endure
that. That's how it is I've kept away from you. But in the end I
have learned to respect you. The little man stands firm, I thought.
Though I am laughing, I am serious. You do stand firm, don't you? I
like people who are firm like that whatever it is they stand by,
even if they are such little fellows as you. Your expectant eyes
ceased to annoy me, I grew fond of them in the end, those expectant
eyes. You seem to love me for some reason, Alyosha?"

"I do love you, Ivan. Dmitri says of you- Ivan is a tomb! I say
of you, Ivan is a riddle. You are a riddle to me even now. But I
understand something in you, and I did not understand it till this
morning."

"What's that?" laughed Ivan.

"You won't be angry?" Alyosha laughed too.

"Well?"

"That you are just as young as other young men of three and
twenty, that you are just a young and fresh and nice boy, green in
fact! Now, have I insulted you dreadfully?"

"On the contrary, I am struck by a coincidence," cried Ivan,
warmly and good-humouredly. "Would you believe it that ever since
that scene with her, I have thought of nothing else but my youthful
greenness, and just as though you guessed that, you begin about it.
Do you know I've been sitting here thinking to myself: that if I
didn't believe in life, if I lost faith in the woman I love, lost
faith in the order of things, were convinced, in fact, that
everything is a disorderly, damnable, and perhaps devil-ridden
chaos, if I were struck by every horror of man's disillusionment-
still I should want to live and, having once tasted of the cup, I
would not turn away from it till I had drained it! At thirty,
though, I shall be sure to leave the cup, even if I've not emptied
it, and turn away- where I don't know. But till I am thirty, I know
that my youth will triumph over everything- every disillusionment,
every disgust with life. I've asked myself many times whether there
is in the world any despair that would overcome this frantic and
perhaps unseemly thirst for life in me, and I've come to the
conclusion that there isn't, that is till I am thirty, and then I
shall lose it of myself, I fancy. Some drivelling consumptive
moralists- and poets especially- often call that thirst for life
base. It's a feature of the Karamazovs, it's true, that thirst for
life regardless of everything; you have it no doubt too, but why is
it base? The centripetal force on our planet is still fearfully
strong, Alyosha. I have a longing for life, and I go on living in
spite of logic. Though I may not believe in the order of the
universe, yet I love the sticky little leaves as they open in
spring. I love the blue sky, I love some people, whom one loves you
know sometimes without knowing why. I love some great deeds done by
men, though I've long ceased perhaps to have faith in them, yet
from old habit one's heart prizes them. Here they have brought the
soup for you, eat it, it will do you good. It's first-rate soup,
they know how to make it here. I want to travel in Europe, Alyosha,
I shall set off from here. And yet I know that I am only going to a
graveyard, but it's a most precious graveyard, that's what it is!
Precious are the dead that lie there, every stone over them speaks
of such burning life in the past, of such passionate faith in their
work, their truth, their struggle and their science, that I know I
shall fall on the ground and kiss those stones and weep over them;
though I'm convinced in my heart that it's long been nothing but a
graveyard. And I shall not weep from despair, but simply because I
shall be happy in my tears, I shall steep my soul in emotion. I
love the sticky leaves in spring, the blue sky- that's all it is.
It's not a matter of intellect or logic, it's loving with one's
inside, with one's stomach. One loves the first strength of one's
youth. Do you understand anything of my tirade, Alyosha?" Ivan
laughed suddenly.

"I understand too well, Ivan. One longs to love with one's
inside, with one's stomach. You said that so well and I am awfully
glad that you have such a longing for life," cried Alyosha. "I
think everyone should love life above everything in the world."

"Love life more than the meaning of it?"

