
While I was still wearing an officer's uniform after my duel, I
talked about servants in general society, and I remember everyone
was amazed at me. "What!" they asked, "are we to make our servants
sit down on the sofa and offer them tea?" And I answered them: "Why
not, sometimes at least?" Everyone laughed. Their question was
frivolous and my answer was not clear; but the thought in it was to
some extent right.

(g) Of Prayer, of Love, and of Contact with other Worlds.

Young man, be not forgetful of prayer. Every time you pray, if
your prayer is sincere, there will be new feeling and new meaning
in it, which will give you fresh courage, and you will understand
that prayer is an education. Remember, too, every day, and whenever
you can, repeat to yourself, "Lord, have mercy on all who appear
before Thee to-day." For every hour and every moment thousands of
men leave life on this earth, and their souls appear before God.
And how many of them depart in solitude, unknown, sad, dejected
that no one mourns for them or even knows whether they have lived
or not! And behold, from the other end of the earth perhaps, your
prayer for their rest will rise up to God though you knew them not
nor they you. How touching it must be to a soul standing in dread
before the Lord to feel at that instant that, for him too, there is
one to pray, that there is a fellow creature left on earth to love
him too! And God will look on you both more graciously, for if you
have had so much pity on him, how much will He have pity Who is
infinitely more loving and merciful than you! And He will forgive
him for your sake.

Brothers, have no fear of men's sin. Love a man even in his sin,
for that is the semblance of Divine Love and is the highest love on
earth. Love all God's creation, the whole and every grain of sand
in it. Love every leaf, every ray of God's light. Love the animals,
love the plants, love everything. If you love everything, you will
perceive the divine mystery in things. Once you perceive it, you
will begin to comprehend it better every day. And you will come at
last to love the whole world with an all-embracing love. Love the
animals: God has given them the rudiments of thought and joy
untroubled. Do not trouble it, don't harass them, don't deprive
them of their happiness, don't work against God's intent. Man, do
not pride yourself on superiority to the animals; they are without
sin, and you, with your greatness, defile the earth by your
appearance on it, and leave the traces of your foulness after you-
alas, it is true of almost every one of us! Love children
especially, for they too are sinless like the angels; they live to
soften and purify our hearts and, as it were, to guide us. Woe to
him who offends a child! Father Anfim taught me to love children.
The kind, silent man used often on our wanderings to spend the
farthings given us on sweets and cakes for the children. He could
not pass by a child without emotion. That's the nature of the
man.

At some thoughts one stands perplexed, especially at the sight
of men's sin, and wonders whether one should use force or humble
love. Always decide to use humble love. If you resolve on that once
for all, you may subdue the whole world. Loving humility is
marvellously strong, the strongest of all things, and there is
nothing else like it.

Every day and every hour, every minute, walk round yourself and
watch yourself, and see that your image is a seemly one. You pass
by a little child, you pass by, spiteful, with ugly words, with
wrathful heart; you may not have noticed the child, but he has seen
you, and your image, unseemly and ignoble, may remain in his
defenceless heart. You don't know it, but you may have sown an evil
seed in him and it may grow, and all because you were not careful
before the child, because you did not foster in yourself a careful,
actively benevolent love. Brothers, love is a teacher; but one must
know how to acquire it, for it is hard to acquire, it is dearly
bought, it is won slowly by long labour. For we must love not only
occasionally, for a moment, but for ever. Everyone can love
occasionally, even the wicked can.

My brother asked the birds to forgive him; that sounds
senseless, but it is right; for all is like an ocean, all is
flowing and blending; a touch in one place sets up movement at the
other end of the earth. It may be senseless to beg forgiveness of
the birds, but birds would be happier at your side- a little
happier, anyway- and children and all animals, if you were nobler
than you are now. It's all like an ocean, I tell you. Then you
would pray to the birds too, consumed by an all-embracing love, in
a sort of transport, and pray that they too will forgive you your
sin. Treasure this ecstasy, however senseless it may seem to
men.

My friends, pray to God for gladness. Be glad as children, as
the birds of heaven. And let not the sin of men confound you in
your doings. Fear not that it will wear away your work and hinder
its being accomplished. Do not say, "Sin is mighty, wickedness is
mighty, evil environment is mighty, and we are lonely and helpless,
and evil environment is wearing us away and hindering our good work
from being done." Fly from that dejection, children! There is only
one means of salvation, then take yourself and make yourself
responsible for all men's sins, that is the truth, you know,
friends, for as soon as you sincerely make yourself responsible for
everything and for all men, you will see at once that it is really
so, and that you are to blame for everyone and for all things. But
throwing your own indolence and impotence on others you will end by
sharing the pride of Satan and murmuring against God.

Of the pride of Satan what I think is this: it is hard for us on
earth to comprehend it, and therefore it is so easy to fall into
error and to share it, even imagining that we are doing something
grand and fine. Indeed, many of the strongest feelings and
movements of our nature we cannot comprehend on earth. Let not that
be a stumbling-block, and think not that it may serve as a
justification to you for anything. For the Eternal judge asks of
you what you can comprehend and not what you cannot. You will know
that yourself hereafter, for you will behold all things truly then
and will not dispute them. On earth, indeed, we are, as it were,
astray, and if it were not for the precious image of Christ before
us, we should be undone and altogether lost, as was the human race
before the flood. Much on earth is hidden from us, but to make up
for that we have been given a precious mystic sense of our living
bond with the other world, with the higher heavenly world, and the
roots of our thoughts and feelings are not here but in other
worlds. That is why the philosophers say that we cannot apprehend
the reality of things on earth.

God took seeds from different worlds and sowed them on this
earth, and His garden grew up and everything came up that could
come up, but what grows lives and is alive only through the feeling
of its contact with other mysterious worlds. If that feeling grows
weak or is destroyed in you, the heavenly growth will die away in
you. Then you will be indifferent to life and even grow to hate it.
That's what I think.

