(h) Can a Man judge his Fellow Creatures? Faith to the End.

Remember particularly that you cannot be a judge of anyone. For
no one can judge a criminal until he recognises that he is just
such a criminal as the man standing before him, and that he perhaps
is more than all men to blame for that crime. When he understands
that, he will be able to be a judge. Though that sounds absurd, it
is true. If I had been righteous myself, perhaps there would have
been no criminal standing before me. If you can take upon yourself
the crime of the criminal your heart is judging, take it at once,
suffer for him yourself, and let him go without reproach. And even
if the law itself makes you his judge, act in the same spirit so
far as possible, for he will go away and condemn himself more
bitterly than you have done. If, after your kiss, he goes away
untouched, mocking at you, do not let that be a stumbling-block to
you. It shows his time has not yet come, but it will come in due
course. And if it come not, no Matter; if not he, then another in
his place will understand and suffer, and judge and condemn
himself, and the truth will be fulfilled. Believe that, believe it
without doubt; for in that lies all the hope and faith of the
saints.

Work without ceasing. If you remember in the night as you go to
sleep, "I have not done what I ought to have done," rise up at once
and do it. If the people around you are spiteful and callous and
will not hear you, fall down before them and beg their forgiveness;
for in truth you are to blame for their not wanting to hear you.
And if you cannot speak to them in their bitterness, serve them in
silence and in humility, never losing hope. If all men abandon you
and even drive you away by force, then when you are left alone fall
on the earth and kiss it, water it with your tears and it will
bring forth fruit even though no one has seen or heard you in your
solitude. Believe to the end, even if all men went astray and you
were left the only one faithful; bring your offering even then and
praise God in your loneliness. And if two of you are gathered
together- then there is a whole world, a world of living love.
Embrace each other tenderly and praise God, for if only in you two
His truth has been fulfilled.

If you sin yourself and grieve even unto death for your sins or
for your sudden sin, then rejoice for others, rejoice for the
righteous man, rejoice that if you have sinned, he is righteous and
has not sinned.

If the evil-doing of men moves you to indignation and
overwhelming distress, even to a desire for vengeance on the
evil-doers, shun above all things that feeling. Go at once and seek
suffering for yourself, as though you were yourself guilty of that
wrong. Accept that suffering and bear it and your heart will find
comfort, and you will understand that you too are guilty, for you
might have been a light to the evil-doers, even as the one man
sinless, and you were not a light to them. If you had been a light,
you would have lightened the path for others too, and the evil-doer
might perhaps have been saved by your light from his sin. And even
though your light was shining, yet you see men were not saved by
it, hold firm and doubt not the power of the heavenly light.
Believe that if they were not saved, they will be saved hereafter.
And if they are not saved hereafter, then their sons will be saved,
for your light will not die even when you are dead. The righteous
man departs, but his light remains. Men are always saved after the
death of the deliverer. Men reject their prophets and slay them,
but they love their martyrs and honour those whom they have slain.
You are working for the whole, are acting for the future. Seek no
reward, for great is your reward on this earth: the spiritual joy
which is only vouchsafed to the righteous man. Fear not the great
nor the mighty, but be wise and ever serene. Know the measure, know
the times, study that. When you are left alone, pray. Love to throw
yourself on the earth and kiss it. Kiss the earth and love it with
an unceasing, consuming love. Love all men, love everything. Seek
that rapture and ecstasy. Water the earth with the tears of your
joy and love those tears. Don't be ashamed of that ecstasy, prize
it, for it is a gift of God and a great one; it is not given to
many but only to the elect.

(i) Of Hell and Hell Fire, a Mystic Reflection.

Fathers and teachers, I ponder, "What is hell?" I maintain that
it is the suffering of being unable to love. Once in infinite
existence, immeasurable in time and space, a spiritual creature was
given on his coming to earth the power of saying, "I am and I
love." Once, only once, there was given him a moment of active
lifting love, and for that was earthly life given him, and with it
times and seasons. And that happy creature rejected the priceless
gift, prized it and loved it not, scorned it and remained callous.
Such a one, having left the earth, sees Abraham's bosom and talks
with Abraham as we are told in the parable of the rich man and
Lazarus, and beholds heaven and can go up to the Lord. But that is
just his torment, to rise up to the Lord without ever having loved,
to be brought close to those who have loved when he has despised
their love. For he sees clearly and says to himself, "Now I have
understanding, and though I now thirst to love, there will be
nothing great, no sacrifice in my love, for my earthly life is
over, and Abraham will not come even with a drop of living water
(that is the gift of earthly active life) to cool the fiery thirst
of spiritual love which burns in me now, though I despised it on
earth; there is no more life for me and will be no more time! Even
though I would gladly give my life for others, it can never be, for
that life is passed which can be sacrificed for love, and now there
is a gulf fixed between that life and this existence."

They talk of hell fire in the material sense. I don't go into
that mystery and I shun it. But I think if there were fire in
material sense, they would be glad of it, for I imagine that in
material agony, their still greater spiritual agony would be
forgotten for a moment. Moreover, that spiritual agony cannot be
taken from them, for that suffering is not external but within
them. And if it could be taken from them, I think it would be
bitterer still for the unhappy creatures. For even if the righteous
in Paradise forgave them, beholding their torments, and called them
up to heaven in their infinite love, they would only multiply their
torments, for they would arouse in them still more keenly a flaming
thirst for responsive, active and grateful love which is now
impossible. In the timidity of my heart I imagine, however, that
the very recognition of this impossibility would serve at last to
console them. For accepting the love of the righteous together with
the impossibility of repaying it, by this submissiveness and the
effect of this humility, they will attain at last, as it were, to a
certain semblance of that active love which they scorned in life,
to something like its outward expression… I am sorry, friends and
brothers, that I cannot express this clearly. But woe to those who
have slain themselves on earth, woe to the suicides! I believe that
there can be none more miserable than they. They tell us that it is
a sin to pray for them and outwardly the Church, as it were,
renounces them, but in my secret heart I believe that we may pray
even for them. Love can never be an offence to Christ. For such as
those I have prayed inwardly all my life, I confess it, fathers and
teachers, and even now I pray for them every day.

Oh, there are some who remain proud and fierce even in hell, in
spite of their certain knowledge and contemplation of the absolute
truth; there are some fearful ones who have given themselves over
to Satan and his proud spirit entirely. For such, hell is voluntary
and ever consuming; they are tortured by their own choice. For they
have cursed themselves, cursing God and life. They live upon their
vindictive pride like a starving man in the desert sucking blood
out of his own body. But they are never satisfied, and they refuse
forgiveness, they curse God Who calls them. They cannot behold the
living God without hatred, and they cry out that the God of life
should be annihilated, that God should destroy Himself and His own
creation. And they will burn in the fire of their own wrath for
ever and yearn for death and annihilation. But they will not attain
to death… .

Here Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov's manuscript ends. I repeat,
it is incomplete and fragmentary. Biographical details, for
instance, cover only Father Zossima's earliest youth. Of his
teaching and opinions we find brought together sayings evidently
uttered on very different occasions. His utterances during the last
few hours have not been kept separate from the rest, but their
general character can be gathered from what we have in Alexey
Fyodorovitch's manuscript.

The elder's death came in the end quite unexpectedly. For
although those who were gathered about him that last evening
realised that his death was approaching, yet it was difficult to
imagine that it would come so suddenly. On the contrary, his
friends, as I observed already, seeing him that night apparently so
cheerful and talkative, were convinced that there was at least a
temporary change for the better in his condition. Even five minutes
before his death, they said afterwards wonderingly, it was
impossible to foresee it. He seemed suddenly to feel an acute pain
in his chest, he turned pale and pressed his hands to his heart.
All rose from their seats and hastened to him. But though
suffering, he still looked at them with a smile, sank slowly from
his chair on to his knees, then bowed his face to the ground,
stretched out his arms and as though in joyful ecstasy, praying and
kissing the ground, quietly and joyfully gave up his soul to
God.
