"He means the three thousand," thought Mitya.

"But where are you? Are you at the door? I'll open it
directly."

And the old man almost climbed out of the window, peering out to
the right, where there was a door into the garden, trying to see
into the darkness. In another second he would certainly have run
out to open the door without waiting for Grushenka's answer.

Mitya looked at him from the side without stirring. The old
man's profile that he loathed so, his pendent Adam's apple, his
hooked nose, his lips that smiled in greedy expectation, were all
brightly lighted up by the slanting lamplight falling on the left
from the room. A horrible fury of hatred suddenly surged up in
Mitya's heart: "There he was, his rival, the man who had tormented
him, had ruined his life!" It was a rush of that sudden, furious,
revengeful anger of which he had spoken, as though foreseeing it,
to Alyosha, four days ago in the arbour, when, in answer to
Alyosha's question, "How can you say you'll kill our father?" "I
don't know, I don't know," he had said then. "Perhaps I shall not
kill him, perhaps I shall. I'm afraid he'll suddenly be so
loathsome to me at that moment. I hate his double chin, his nose,
his eyes, his shameless grin. I feel a personal repulsion. That's
what I'm afraid of, that's what may be too much for me."â€¦ This
personal repulsion was growing unendurable. Mitya was beside
himself, he suddenly pulled the brass pestle out of his pocket.

"God was watching over me then," Mitya himself said afterwards.
At that very moment Grigory waked up on his bed of sickness.
Earlier in the evening he had undergone the treatment which
Smerdyakov had described to Ivan. He had rubbed himself all over
with vodka mixed with a secret, very strong decoction, had drunk
what was left of the mixture while his wife repeated a "certain
prayer" over him, after which he had gone to bed. Marfa Ignatyevna
had tasted the stuff, too, and, being unused to strong drink, slept
like the dead beside her husband.

But Grigory waked up in the night, quite suddenly, and, after a
moment's reflection, though he immediately felt a sharp pain in his
back, he sat up in bed. Then he deliberated again, got up and
dressed hurriedly. Perhaps his conscience was uneasy at the thought
of sleeping while the house was unguarded "in such perilous times."
Smerdyakov, exhausted by his fit, lay motionless in the next room.
Marfa Ignatyevna did not stir. "The stuff's been too much for the
woman," Grigory thought, glancing at her, and groaning, he went out
on the steps. No doubt he only intended to look out from the steps,
for he was hardly able to walk, the pain in his back and his right
leg was intolerable. But he suddenly remembered that he had not
locked the little gate into the garden that evening. He was the
most punctual and precise of men, a man who adhered to an
unchangeable routine, and habits that lasted for years. Limping and
writhing with pain he went down the steps and towards the garden.
Yes, the gate stood wide open. Mechanically he stepped into the
garden. Perhaps he fancied something, perhaps caught some sound,
and, glancing to the left he saw his master's window open. No one
was looking out of it then.

"What's it open for? It's not summer now," thought Grigory, and
suddenly, at that very instant he caught a glimpse of something
extraordinary before him in the garden. Forty paces in front of him
a man seemed to be running in the dark, a sort of shadow was moving
very fast.

"Good Lord!" cried Grigory beside himself, and forgetting the
pain in his back, he hurried to intercept the running figure. He
took a short cut, evidently he knew the garden better; the flying
figure went towards the bath-house, ran behind it and rushed to the
garden fence. Grigory followed, not losing sight of him, and ran,
forgetting everything. He reached the fence at the very moment the
man was climbing over it. Grigory cried out, beside himself,
pounced on him, and clutched his leg in his two hands.

Yes, his foreboding had not deceived him. He recognised him; it
was he, the "monster," the "parricide."

"Parricide! the old man shouted so that the whole neighbourhood
could hear, but he had not time to shout more, he fell at once, as
though struck by lightning.

Mitya jumped back into the garden and bent over the fallen man.
In Mitya's hands was a brass pestle, and he flung it mechanically
in the grass. The pestle fell two paces from Grigory, not in the
grass but on the path, in a most conspicuous place. For some
seconds he examined the prostrate figure before him. The old man's
head was covered with blood. Mitya put out his hand and began
feeling it. He remembered afterwards clearly that he had been
awfully anxious to make sure whether he had broken the old man's
skull, or simply stunned him with the pestle. But the blood was
flowing horribly; and in a moment Mitya's fingers were drenched
with the hot stream. He remembered taking out of his pocket the
clean white handkerchief with which he had provided himself for his
visit to Madame Hohlakov, and putting it to the old man's head,
senselessly trying to wipe the blood from his face and temples. But
the handkerchief was instantly soaked with blood.
