
Trifon Borissovitch was a thick-set, healthy peasant, of middle
height, with a rather fat face. His expression was severe and
uncompromising, especially with the peasants of Mokroe, but he had
the power of assuming the most obsequious countenance, when he had
an inkling that it was to his interest. He dressed in Russian
style, with a shirt buttoning down on one side, and a full-skirted
coat. He had saved a good sum of money, but was for ever dreaming
of improving his position. More than half the peasants were in his
clutches, everyone in the neighbourhood was in debt to him. From
the neighbouring landowners he bought and rented lands which were
worked by the peasants, in payment of debts which they could never
shake off. He was a widower, with four grown-up daughters. One of
them was already a widow and lived in the inn with her two
children, his grandchildren, and worked for him like a charwoman.
Another of his daughters was married to a petty official, and in
one of the rooms of the inn, on the wall could be seen, among the
family photographs, a miniature photograph of this official in
uniform and official epaulettes. The two younger daughters used to
wear fashionable blue or green dresses, fitting tight at the back,
and with trains a yard long, on Church holidays or when they went
to pay visits. But next morning they would get up at dawn, as
usual, sweep out the rooms with a birch-broom, empty the slops, and
clean up after lodgers.

In spite of the thousands of roubles he had saved, Trifon
Borissovitch was very fond of emptying the pockets of a drunken
guest, and remembering that not a month ago he had, in twenty-four
hours, made two if not three hundred roubles out of Dmitri, when he
had come on his escapade with Grushenka, he met him now with eager
welcome, scenting his prey the moment Mitya drove up to the
steps.

"Dmitri Fyodorovitch, dear sir, we see you once more!"

"Stay, Trifon Borissovitch," began Mitya, "first and foremost,
where is she?"

"Agrafena Alexandrovna?" The inn-keeper understood at once,
looking sharply into Mitya's face. "She's here, tooâ€¦ "

"With whom? With whom?"

"Some strangers. One is an official gentleman, a Pole, to judge
from his speech. He sent the horses for her from here; and there's
another with him, a friend of his, or a fellow traveller, there's
no telling. They're dressed like civilians."

"Well, are they feasting? Have they money?"

"Poor sort of a feast! Nothing to boast of, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch."

"Nothing to boast of? And who are the others?"

