


Chapter

4
A
Lady of Little Faith


A visitor looking on the scene of his conversation with the
peasants and his blessing them shed silent tears and wiped them
away with her handkerchief. She was a sentimental society lady of
genuinely good disposition in many respects. When the elder went up
to her at last she met him enthusiastically.

"Ah, what I have been feeling, looking on at this touching
scene!â€¦ "She could not go on for emotion. "Oh, I understand the
people's love for you. I love the people myself. I want to love
them. And who could help loving them, our splendid Russian people,
so simple in their greatness!"

"How is your daughter's health? You wanted to talk to me
again?"

"Oh, I have been urgently begging for it, I have prayed for it!
I was ready to fall on my knees and kneel for three days at your
windows until you let me in. We have come, great healer, to express
our ardent gratitude. You have healed my Lise, healed her
completely, merely by praying over her last Thursday and laying
your hands upon her. We have hastened here to kiss those hands, to
pour out our feelings and our homage."

"What do you mean by healed? But she is still lying down in her
chair."

"But her night fevers have entirely ceased ever since Thursday,"
said the lady with nervous haste. "And that's not all. Her legs are
stronger. This mourning she got up well; she had slept all night.
Look at her rosy cheeks, her bright eyes! She used to be always
crying, but now she laughs and is gay and happy. This morning she
insisted on my letting her stand up, and she stood up for a whole
minute without any support. She wagers that in a fortnight she'll
be dancing a quadrille. I've called in Doctor Herzenstube. He
shrugged his shoulders and said, 'I am amazed; I can make nothing
of it.' And would you have us not come here to disturb you, not fly
here to thank you? Lise, thank him- thank him!"

Lise's pretty little laughing face became suddenly serious. She
rose in her chair as far as she could and, looking at the elder,
clasped her hands before him, but could not restrain herself and
broke into laughter.
