


Chapter

2
The Alarm


OUR police captain, Mihail Makarovitch Makarov, a retired
lieutenant-colonel, was a widower and an excellent man. He had only
come to us three years previously, but had won general esteem,
chiefly because he "knew how to keep society together." He was
never without visitors, and could not have got on without them.
Someone or other was always dining with him; he never sat down to
table without guests. He gave regular dinners, too, on all sorts of
occasions, sometimes most surprising ones. Though the fare was not
recherche, it was abundant. The fish-pies were excellent, and the
wine made up in quantity for what it lacked in quality.

The first room his guests entered was a well fitted
billiard-room, with pictures of English race horses, in black
frames on the walls, an essential decoration, as we all know, for a
bachelor's billiard-room. There was card playing every evening at
his house, if only at one table. But at frequent intervals, all the
society of our town, with the mammas and young ladies, assembled at
his house to dance. Mihail Makarovitch was a widower, he did not
live alone. His widowed daughter lived with him, with her two
unmarried daughters, grown-up girls, who had finished their
education. They were of agreeable appearance and lively character,
and though everyone knew they would have no dowry, they attracted
all the young men of fashion to their grandfather's house.

Mihail Makarovitch was by no means very efficient in his work,
though he performed his duties no worse than many others. To speak
plainly, he was a man of rather narrow education. His understanding
of the limits of his administrative power could not always be
relied upon. It was not so much that he failed to grasp certain
reforms enacted during the present reign, as that he made
conspicuous blunders in his interpretation of them. This was not
from any special lack of intelligence, but from carelessness, for
he was always in to great a hurry to go into the subject.

"I have the heart of a soldier rather than of a civilian," he
used to say of himself. He had not even formed a definite idea of
the fundamental principles of the reforms connected with the
emancipation of the serfs, and only picked it up, so to speak, from
year to year, involuntarily increasing his knowledge by practice.
And yet he was himself a landowner. Pyotr Ilyitch knew for certain
that he would meet some of Mihail Makarovitch's visitors there that
evening, but he didn't know which. As it happened, at that moment
the prosecutor, and Varvinsky, our district doctor, a young man,
who had only just come to us from Petersburg after taking a
brilliant degree at the Academy of Medicine, were playing whist at
the police captain's. Ippolit Kirillovitch, the prosecutor (he was
really the deputy prosecutor, but we always called him the
prosecutor), was rather a peculiar man, of about five and thirty,
inclined to be consumptive, and married to a fat and childless
woman. He was vain and irritable, though he had a good intellect,
and even a kind heart. It seemed that all that was wrong with him
was that he had a better opinion of himself than his ability
warranted. And that made him seem constantly uneasy. He had,
moreover, certain higher, even artistic, leanings, towards
psychology, for instance, a special study of the human heart, a
special knowledge of the criminal and his crime. He cherished a
grievance on this ground, considering that he had been passed over
in the service, and being firmly persuaded that in higher spheres
he had not been properly appreciated, and had enemies. In gloomy
moments he even threatened to give up his post, and practise as a
barrister in criminal cases. The unexpected Karamazov case agitated
him profoundly: "It was a case that might well be talked about all
over Russia." But I am anticipating.

Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov, the young investigating lawyer,
who had only come from Petersburg two months before, was sitting in
the next room with the young ladies. People talked about it
afterwards and wondered that all the gentlemen should, as though
intentionally, on the evening of "the crime" have been gathered
together at the house of the executive authority. Yet it was
perfectly simple and happened quite naturally.

Ippolit Kirillovitch's wife had had toothache for the last two
days, and he was obliged to go out to escape from her groans. The
doctor, from the very nature of his being, could not spend an
evening except at cards. Nikolay Parfenovitch Nelyudov had been
intending for three days past to drop in that evening at Mihail
Makarovitch's, so to speak casually, so as slyly to startle the
eldest granddaughter, Olga Mihailovna, by showing that he knew her
secret, that he knew it was her birthday, and that she was trying
to conceal it on purpose, so as not to be obliged to give a dance.
He anticipated a great deal of merriment, many playful jests about
her age, and her being afraid to reveal it, about his knowing her
secret and telling everybody, and so on. The charming young man was
a great adept at such teasing; the ladies had christened him "the
naughty man," and he seemed to be delighted at the name. He was
extremely well-bred, however, of good family, education and
feelings, and, though leading a life of pleasure, his sallies were
always innocent and in good taste. He was short, and
delicate-looking. On his white, slender, little fingers he always
wore a number of big, glittering rings. When he was engaged in his
official duties, he always became extraordinarily grave, as though
realising his position and the sanctity of the obligations laid
upon him. He had a special gift for mystifying murderers and other
criminals of the peasant class during interrogation, and if he did
not win their respect, he certainly succeeded in arousing their
wonder.

Pyotr Ilyitch was simply dumbfounded when he went into the
police captain's. He saw instantly that everyone knew. They had
positively thrown down their cards, all were standing up and
talking. Even Nikolay Parfenovitch had left the young ladies and
run in, looking strenuous and ready for action. Pyotr Ilyitch was
met with the astounding news that old Fyodor Pavlovitch really had
been murdered that evening in his own house, murdered and robbed.
The news had only just reached them in the following manner:
