
But even though he exclaimed he still preserved for a time his
genially expansive mood. So he told them how Samsonov had made a
fool of him two days before. (He had completely realised by now
that he had been fooled.) The sale of his watch for six roubles to
obtain money for the journey was something new to the lawyers. They
were at once greatly interested, and even, to Mitya's intense
indignation, thought it necessary to write the fact down as a
secondary confirmation of the circumstance that he had hardly a
farthing in his pocket at the time. Little by little Mitya began to
grow surly. Then, after describing his journey to see Lyagavy, the
night spent in the stifling hut, and so on, he came to his return
to the town. Here he began, without being particularly urged, to
give a minute account of the agonies of jealousy he endured on
Grushenka's account.

He was heard with silent attention. They inquired particularly
into the circumstance of his having a place of ambush in Marya
Kondratyevna's house at the back of Fyodor Pavlovitch's garden to
keep watch on Grushenka, and of Smerdyakov's bringing him
information. They laid particular stress on this, and noted it
down. Of his jealousy he spoke warmly and at length, and though
inwardly ashamed at exposing his most intimate feelings to "public
ignominy," so to speak, he evidently overcame his shame in order to
tell the truth. The frigid severity with which the investigating
lawyer, and still more the prosecutor, stared intently at him as he
told his story, disconcerted him at last considerably.

"That boy, Nikolay Parfenovitch, to whom I was talking nonsense
about women only a few days ago, and that sickly prosecutor are not
worth my telling this to," he reflected mournfully. "It's
ignominious. 'Be patient, humble, hold thy peace.'" He wound up his
reflections with that line. But he pulled himself together to go on
again. When he came to telling of his visit to Madame Hohlakov, he
regained his spirits and even wished to tell a little anecdote of
that lady which had nothing to do with the case. But the
investigating lawyer stopped him, and civilly suggested that he
should pass on to "more essential matters." At last, when he
described his despair and told them how, when he left Madame
Hohlakov's, he thought that he'd "get three thousand if he had to
murder someone to do it," they stopped him again and noted down
that he had "meant to murder someone." Mitya let them write it
without protest. At last he reached the point in his story when he
learned that Grushenka had deceived him and had returned from
Samsonov's as soon as he left her there, though she had said that
she would stay there till midnight.

"If I didn't kill Fenya then, gentlemen, it was only because I
hadn't time," broke from him suddenly at that point in his story.
That, too, was carefully written down. Mitya waited gloomily, and
was beginning to tell how he ran into his father's garden when the
investigating lawyer suddenly stopped him, and opening the big
portfolio that lay on the sofa beside him he brought out the brass
pestle.

"Do you recognise this object?" he asked, showing it to
Mitya.

"Oh, yes," he laughed gloomily. "Of course, I recognise it. Let
me have a look at itâ€¦ . Damn it, never mind!"

"You have forgotten to mention it," observed the investigating
lawyer.

"Hang it all, I shouldn't have concealed it from you. Do you
suppose I could have managed without it? It simply escaped my
memory."

"Be so good as to tell us precisely how you came to arm yourself
with it."

"Certainly I will be so good, gentlemen."

