


Chapter

5
So
Be It! So Be It!


THE elder's absence from his cell had lasted for about
twenty-five minutes. It was more than half-past twelve, but Dmitri,
on whose account they had all met there, had still not appeared.
But he seemed almost to be forgotten, and when the elder entered
the cell again, he found his guests engaged in eager conversation.
Ivan and the two monks took the leading share in it. Miusov, too,
was trying to take a part, and apparently very eagerly, in the
conversation. But he was unsuccessful in this also. He was
evidently in the background, and his remarks were treated with
neglect, which increased his irritability. He had had intellectual
encounters with Ivan before and he could not endure a certain
carelessness Ivan showed him.

"Hitherto at least I have stood in the front ranks of all that
is progressive in Europe, and here the new generation positively
ignores us," he thought.

Fyodor Pavlovitch, who had given his word to sit still and be
quiet, had actually been quiet for some time, but he watched his
neighbour Miusov with an ironical little smile, obviously enjoying
his discomfiture. He had been waiting for some time to pay off old
scores, and now he could not let the opportunity slip. Bending over
his shoulder he began teasing him again in a whisper.

"Why didn't you go away just now, after the 'courteously
kissing'? Why did you consent to remain in such unseemly company?
It was because you felt insulted and aggrieved, and you remained to
vindicate yourself by showing off your intelligence. Now you won't
go till you've displayed your intellect to them."

"You again?â€¦ On the contrary, I'm just going."

"You'll be the last, the last of all to go!" Fyodor Pavlovitch
delivered him another thrust, almost at the moment of Father
Zossima's return.

The discussion died down for a moment, but the elder, seating
himself in his former place, looked at them all as though cordially
inviting them to go on. Alyosha, who knew every expression of his
face, saw that he was fearfully exhausted and making a great
effort. Of late he had been liable to fainting fits from
exhaustion. His face had the pallor that was common before such
attacks, and his lips were white. But he evidently did not want to
break up the party. He seemed to have some special object of his
own in keeping them. What object? Alyosha watched him intently.
