He ceased speaking suddenly, as though checking himself. After
listening attentively and respectfully Ivan went on, addressing the
elder with perfect composure and as before with ready
cordiality:

"The whole point of my article lies in the fact that during the
first three centuries Christianity only existed on earth in the
Church and was nothing but the Church. When the pagan Roman Empire
desired to become Christian, it inevitably happened that, by
becoming Christian, it included the Church but remained a pagan
State in very many of its departments. In reality this was bound to
happen. But Rome as a State retained too much of the pagan
civilisation and culture, as, for example, in the very objects and
fundamental principles of the State. The Christian Church entering
into the State could, of course, surrender no part of its
fundamental principles- the rock on which it stands- and could
pursue no other aims than those which have been ordained and
revealed by God Himself, and among them that of drawing the whole
world, and therefore the ancient pagan State itself, into the
Church. In that way (that is, with a view to the future) it is not
the Church that should seek a definite position in the State, like
'every social organisation,' or as 'an organisation of men for
religious purposes' (as my opponent calls the Church), but, on the
contrary, every earthly State should be, in the end, completely
transformed into the Church and should become nothing else but a
Church, rejecting every purpose incongruous with the aims of the
Church. All this will not degrade it in any way or take from its
honour and glory as a great State, nor from the glory of its
rulers, but only turns it from a false, still pagan, and mistaken
path to the true and rightful path, which alone leads to the
eternal goal. This is why the author of the book On the Foundations
of Church Jurisdiction would have judged correctly if, in seeking
and laying down those foundations, he bad looked upon them as a
temporary compromise inevitable in our sinful and imperfect days.
But as soon as the author ventures to declare that the foundations
which he predicates now, part of which Father Iosif just
enumerated, are the permanent, essential, and eternal foundations,
he is going directly against the Church and its sacred and eternal
vocation. That is the gist of my article."

"That is, in brief," Father Paissy began again, laying stress on
each word, "according to certain theories only too clearly
formulated in the nineteenth century, the Church ought to be
transformed into the State, as though this would be an advance from
a lower to a higher form, so as to disappear into it, making way
for science, for the spirit of the age, and civilisation. And if
the Church resists and is unwilling, some corner will be set apart
for her in the State, and even that under control and this will be
so everywhere in all modern European countries. But Russian hopes
and conceptions demand not that the Church should pass as from a
lower into a higher type into the State, but, on the contrary, that
the State should end by being worthy to become only the Church and
nothing else. So be it! So be it!"

"Well, I confess you've reassured me somewhat," Miusov said
smiling, again crossing his legs. "So far as I understand, then,
the realisation of such an ideal is infinitely remote, at the
second coming of Christ. That's as you please. It's a beautiful
Utopian dream of the abolition of war, diplomacy, banks, and so on-
something after the fashion of socialism, indeed. But I imagined
that it was all meant seriously, and that the Church might be now
going to try criminals, and sentence them to beating, prison, and
even death."

"But if there were none but the ecclesiastical court, the Church
would not even now sentence a criminal to prison or to death. Crime
and the way of regarding it would inevitably change, not all at
once of course, but fairly soon," Ivan replied calmly, without
flinching.

"Are you serious?" Miusov glanced keenly at him.

"If everything became the Church, the Church would exclude all
the criminal and disobedient, and would not cut off their heads,"
Ivan went on. "I ask you, what would become of the excluded? He
would be cut off then not only from men, as now, but from Christ.
By his crime he would have transgressed not only against men but
against the Church of Christ. This is so even now, of course,
strictly speaking, but it is not clearly enunciated, and very, very
often the criminal of to-day compromises with his conscience: 'I
steal,' he says, 'but I don't go against the Church. I'm not an
enemy of Christ.' That's what the criminal of to-day is continually
saying to himself, but when the Church takes the place of the State
it will be difficult for him, in opposition to the Church all over
the world, to say: 'All men are mistaken, all in error, all mankind
are the false Church. I, a thief and murderer, am the only true
Christian Church.' It will be very difficult to say this to
himself; it requires a rare combination of unusual circumstances.
Now, on the other side, take the Church's own view of crime: is it
not bound to renounce the present almost pagan attitude, and to
change from a mechanical cutting off of its tainted member for the
preservation of society, as at present, into completely and
honestly adopting the idea of the regeneration of the man, of his
reformation and salvation?"

"What do you mean? I fail to understand again," Miusov
interrupted. "Some sort of dream again. Something shapeless and
even incomprehensible. What is excommunication? What sort of
exclusion? I suspect you are simply amusing yourself, Ivan
Fyodorovitch."

"Yes, but you know, in reality it is so now," said the elder
suddenly, and all turned to him at once. "If it were not for the
Church of Christ there would be nothing to restrain the criminal
from evil-doing, no real chastisement for it afterwards; none, that
is, but the mechanical punishment spoken of just now, which in the
majority of cases only embitters the heart; and not the real
punishment, the only effectual one, the only deterrent and
softening one, which lies in the recognition of sin by
conscience."

"How is that, may one inquire?" asked Miusov, with lively
curiosity.

"Why," began the elder, "all these sentences to exile with hard
labour, and formerly with flogging also, reform no one, and what's
more, deter hardly a single criminal, and the number of crimes does
not diminish but is continually on the increase. You must admit
that. Consequently the security of society is not preserved, for,
although the obnoxious member is mechanically cut off and sent far
away out of sight, another criminal always comes to take his place
at once, and often two of them. If anything does preserve society,
even in our time, and does regenerate and transform the criminal,
it is only the law of Christ speaking in his conscience. It is only
by recognising his wrongdoing as a son of a Christian society- that
is, of the Church- that he recognises his sin against society- that
is, against the Church. So that it is only against the Church, and
not against the State, that the criminal of to-day can recognise
that he has sinned. If society, as a Church, had jurisdiction, then
it would know when to bring back from exclusion and to reunite to
itself. Now the Church having no real jurisdiction, but only the
power of moral condemnation, withdraws of her own accord from
punishing the criminal actively. She does not excommunicate him but
simply persists in motherly exhortation of him. What is more, the
Church even tries to preserve all Christian communion with the
criminal. She admits him to church services, to the holy sacrament,
gives him alms, and treats him more a captive than as a convict.
And what would become of the criminal, O Lord, if even the
Christian society- that is, the Church- were to reject him even as
the civil law rejects him and cuts him off? What would become of
him if the Church punished him with her excommunication as the
direct consequence of the secular law? There could be no more
terrible despair, at least for a Russian criminal, for Russian
criminals still have faith. Though, who knows, perhaps then a
fearful thing would happen, perhaps the despairing heart of the
criminal would lose its faith and then what would become of him?
But the Church, like a tender, loving mother, holds aloof from
active punishment herself, as the sinner is too severely punished
already by the civil law, and there must be at least someone to
have pity on him. The Church holds aloof, above all, because its
judgment is the only one that contains the truth, and therefore
cannot practically and morally be united to any other judgment even
as a temporary compromise. She can enter into no compact about
that. The foreign criminal, they say, rarely repents, for the very
doctrines of to-day confirm him in the idea that his crime is not a
crime, but only a reaction against an unjustly oppressive force.
Society cuts him off completely by a force that triumphs over him
mechanically and (so at least they say of themselves in Europe)
accompanies this exclusion with hatred, forgetfulness, and the most
profound indifference as to the ultimate fate of the erring
brother. In this way, it all takes place without the compassionate
intervention of the Church, for in many cases there are no churches
there at all, for though ecclesiastics and splendid church
buildings remain, the churches themselves have long ago striven to
pass from Church into State and to disappear in it completely. So
it seems at least in Lutheran countries. As for Rome, it was
proclaimed a State instead of a Church a thousand years ago. And so
the criminal is no longer conscious of being a member of the Church
and sinks into despair. If he returns to society, often it is with
such hatred that society itself instinctively cuts him off. You can
judge for yourself how it must end. In many cases it would seem to
be the same with us, but the difference is that besides the
established law courts we have the Church too, which always keeps
up relations with the criminal as a dear and still precious son.
And besides that, there is still preserved, though only in thought,
the judgment of the Church, which though no longer existing in
practice is still living as a dream for the future, and is, no
doubt, instinctively recognised by the criminal in his soul. What
was said here just now is true too, that is, that if the
jurisdiction of the Church were introduced in practice in its full
force, that is, if the whole of the society were changed into the
Church, not only the judgment of the Church would have influence on
the reformation of the criminal such as it never has now, but
possibly also the crimes themselves would be incredibly diminished.
And there can be no doubt that the Church would look upon the
criminal and the crime of the future in many cases quite
differently and would succeed in restoring the excluded, in
restraining those who plan evil, and in regenerating the fallen. It
is true," said Father Zossima, with a smile, "the Christian society
now is not ready and is only resting on some seven righteous men,
but as they are never lacking, it will continue still unshaken in
expectation of its complete transformation from a society almost
heathen in character into a single universal and all-powerful
Church. So be it, so be it! Even though at the end of the ages, for
it is ordained to come to pass! And there is no need to be troubled
about times and seasons, for the secret of the times and seasons is
in the wisdom of God, in His foresight, and His love. And what in
human reckoning seems still afar off, may by the Divine ordinance
be close at hand, on the eve of its appearance. And so be it, so be
it!
