
"Ilusha is very ill. He is certainly dying."

"How awful! You must admit that medicine is a fraud, Karamazov,"
cried Kolya warmly.

"Ilusha has mentioned you often, very often, even in his sleep,
in delirium, you know. One can see that you used to be very, very
dear to him… before the incident… with the knife… . Then there's
another reason… . Tell me, is that your dog?"

"Yes Perezvon."

"Not Zhutchka?" Alyosha looked at Kolya with eyes full of pity.
"Is she lost for ever?"

"I know you would all like it to be Zhutchka. I've heard all
about it." Kolya smiled mysteriously. "Listen, Karamazov, I'll tell
you all about it. That's what I came for; that's what I asked you
to come out here for, to explain the whole episode to you before we
go in," he began with animation. "You see, Karamazov, Ilusha came
into the preparatory class last spring. Well, you know what our
preparatory class is- a lot of small boys. They began teasing
Ilusha at once. I am two classes higher up, and, of course, I only
look on at them from a distance. I saw the boy was weak and small,
but he wouldn't give in to them; he fought with them. I saw he was
proud, and his eyes were full of fire. I like children like that.
And they teased him all the more. The worst of it was he was
horribly dressed at the time, his breeches were too small for him,
and there were holes in his boots. They worried him about it; they
jeered at him. That I can't stand. I stood up for him at once, and
gave it to them hot. I beat them, but they adore me, do you know,
Karamazov?" Kolya boasted impulsively; "but I am always fond of
children. I've two chickens in my hands at home now- that's what
detained me to-day. So they left off beating Ilusha and I took him
under my protection. I saw the boy was proud. I tell you that, the
boy was proud; but in the end he became slavishly devoted to me: he
did my slightest bidding, obeyed me as though I were God, tried to
copy me. In the intervals between the classes he used to run to me
at once' and I'd go about with him. On Sundays, too. They always
laugh when an older boy makes friends with a younger one like that;
but that's a prejudice. If it's my fancy, that's enough. I am
teaching him, developing him. Why shouldn't I develop him if I like
him? Here you, Karamazov, have taken up with all these nestlings. I
see you want to influence the younger generation- to develop them,
to be of use to them, and I assure you this trait in your
character, which I knew by hearsay, attracted me more than
anything. Let us get to the point, though. I noticed that there was
a sort of softness and sentimentality coming over the boy, and you
know I have a positive hatred of this sheepish sentimentality, and
I have had it from a baby. There were contradictions in him, too:
he was proud, but he was slavishly devoted to me, and yet all at
once his eyes would flash and he'd refuse to agree with me; he'd
argue, fly into a rage. I used sometimes to propound certain ideas;
I could see that it was not so much that he disagreed with the
ideas, but that he was simply rebelling against me, because I was
cool in responding to his endearments. And so, in order to train
him properly, the tenderer he was, the colder I became. I did it on
purpose: that was my idea. My object was to form his character, to
lick him into shape, to make a man of him… and besides… no doubt,
you understand me at a word. Suddenly I noticed for three days in
succession he was downcast and dejected, not because of my
coldness, but for something else, something more important. I
wondered what the tragedy was. I have pumped him and found out that
he had somehow got to know Smerdyakov, who was footman to your late
father- it was before his death, of course- and he taught the
little fool a silly trick- that is, a brutal, nasty trick. He told
him to take a piece of bread, to stick a pin in it, and throw it to
one of those hungry dogs who snap up anything without biting it,
and then to watch and see what would happen. So they prepared a
piece of bread like that and threw it to Zhutchka, that shaggy dog
there's been such a fuss about. The people of the house it belonged
to never fed it at all, though it barked all day. (Do you like that
stupid barking, Karamazov? I can't stand it.) So it rushed at the
bread, swallowed it, and began to squeal; it turned round and round
and ran away, squealing as it ran out of sight. That was Ilusha's
own account of it. He confessed it to me, and cried bitterly. He
hugged me, shaking all over. He kept on repeating 'He ran away
squealing': the sight of that haunted him. He was tormented by
remorse, I could see that. I took it seriously. I determined to
give him a lesson for other things as well. So I must confess I
wasn't quite straightforward, and pretended to be more indignant
perhaps than I was. 'You've done a nasty thing,' I said, 'you are a
scoundrel. I won't tell of it, of course, but I shall have nothing
more to do with you for a time. I'll think it over and let you know
through Smurov'- that's the boy who's just come with me; he's
always ready to do anything for me- 'whether I will have anything
to do with you in the future or whether I give you up for good as a
scoundrel.' He was tremendously upset. I must own I felt I'd gone
too far as I spoke, but there was no help for it. I did what I
thought best at the time. A day or two after, I sent Smurov to tell
him that I would not speak to him again. That's what we call it
when two schoolfellows refuse to have anything more to do with one
another. Secretly I only meant to send him to Coventry for a few
days and then, if I saw signs of repentance, to hold out my hand to
him again. That was my intention. But what do you think happened?
He heard Smurov's message, his eyes flashed. 'Tell Krassotkin for
me,' he cried, 'that I will throw bread with pins to all the dogs-
all- all of them!' 'So he's going in for a little temper. We must
smoke it out of him.' And I began to treat him with contempt;
whenever I met him I turned away or smiled sarcastically. And just
then that affair with his father happened. You remember? You must
realise that he was fearfully worked up by what had happened
already. The boys, seeing I'd given him up, set on him and taunted
him, shouting, 'Wisp of tow, wisp of tow!' And he had soon regular
skirmishes with them, which I am very sorry for. They seem to have
given him one very bad beating. One day he flew at them all as they
were coming out of school. I stood a few yards off, looking on.
And, I swear, I don't remember that I laughed; it was quite the
other way, I felt awfully sorry for him; in another minute I would
have run up to take his part. But he suddenly met my eyes. I don't
know what he fancied; but he pulled out a penknife, rushed at me,
and struck at my thigh, here in my right leg. I didn't move. I
don't mind owning I am plucky sometimes, Karamazov. I simply looked
at him contemptuously, as though to say, 'This is how you repay all
my kindness! Do it again if you like, I'm at your service.' But he
didn't stab me again; he broke down; he was frightened at what he
had done; he threw away the knife, burst out crying, and ran away.
I did not sneak on him, of course, and I made them all keep quiet,
so it shouldn't come to the ears of the masters. I didn't even tell
my mother till it had healed up. And the wound was a mere scratch.
And then I heard that the same day he'd been throwing stones and
had bitten your finger- but you understand now what a state he was
in! Well, it can't be helped: it was stupid of me not to come and
forgive him- that is, to make it up with him- when he was taken
ill. I am sorry for it now. But I had a special reason. So now I've
told you all about it… but I'm afraid it was stupid of me."

"Oh, what a pity," exclaimed Alyosha, with feeling, "that I
didn't know before what terms you were on with him, or I'd have
come to you long ago to beg you to go to him with me. Would you
believe it, when he was feverish he talked about you in delirium. I
didn't know how much you were to him! And you've really not
succeeded in finding that dog? His father and the boys have been
hunting all over the town for it. Would you believe it, since he's
been ill, I've three times heard him repeat with tears, 'It's
because I killed Zhutchka, father, that I am ill now. God is
punishing me for it.' He can't get that idea out of his head. And
if the dog were found and proved to be alive, one might almost
fancy the joy would cure him. We have all rested our hopes on
you."

"Tell me, what made you hope that I should be the one to find
him?" Kolya asked, with great curiosity. "Why did you reckon on me
rather than anyone else?"

"There was a report that you were looking for the dog, and that
you would bring it when you'd found it. Smurov said something of
the sort. We've all been trying to persuade Ilusha that the dog is
alive, that it's been seen. The boys brought him a live hare: he
just looked at it, with a faint smile, and asked them to set it
free in the fields. And so we did. His father has just this moment
come back, bringing him a mastiff pup, hoping to comfort him with
that; but I think it only makes it worse."

"Tell me, Karamazov, what sort of man is the father? I know him,
but what do you make of him- a mountebank, a buffoon?"

