
"They all blame me, all of them!" cried Fyodor Pavlovitch in his
turn. "Pyotr Alexandrovitch here blames me too. You have been
blaming me, Pyotr Alexandrovitch, you have!" he turned suddenly to
Miusov, although the latter was not dreaming of interrupting him.
"They all accuse me of having hidden the children's money in my
boots, and cheated them, but isn't there a court of law? There they
will reckon out for you, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, from your notes, your
letters, and your agreements, how much money you had, how much you
have spent, and how much you have left. Why does Pyotr
Alexandrovitch refuse to pass judgment? Dmitri is not a stranger to
him. Because they are all against me, while Dmitri Fyodorovitch is
in debt to me, and not a little, but some thousands of which I have
documentary proof. The whole town is echoing with his debaucheries.
And where he was stationed before, he several times spent a
thousand or two for the seduction of some respectable girl; we know
all about that, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, in its most secret details.
I'll prove it… . Would you believe it, holy Father, he has
captivated the heart of the most honourable of young ladies of good
family and fortune, daughter of a gallant colonel, formerly his
superior officer, who had received many honours and had the Anna
Order on his breast. He compromised the girl by his promise of
marriage, now she is an orphan and here; she is betrothed to him,
yet before her very eyes he is dancing attendance on a certain
enchantress. And although this enchantress has lived in, so to
speak, civil marriage with a respectable man, yet she is of an
independent character, an unapproachable fortress for everybody,
just like a legal wife- for she is virtuous, yes, holy Fathers, she
is virtuous. Dmitri Fyodorovitch wants to open this fortress with a
golden key, and that's why he is insolent to me now, trying to get
money from me, though he has wasted thousands on this enchantress
already. He's continually borrowing money for the purpose. From
whom do you think? Shall I say, Mitya?"

"Be silent!" cried Dmitri, "wait till I'm gone. Don't dare in my
presence to asperse the good name of an honourable girl! That you
should utter a word about her is an outrage, and I won't permit
it!" He was breathless.

He was breathless. "Mitya! Mitya!" cried Fyodor Pavlovitch
hysterically, squeezing out a tear. "And is your father's blessing
nothing to you? If I curse you, what then?"

"Shameless hypocrite! "exclaimed Dmitri furiously.

"He says that to his father! his father What would he be with
others? Gentlemen, only fancy; there's a poor but honourable man
living here, burdened with a numerous family, a captain who got
into trouble and was discharged from the army, but not publicly,
not by court-martial, with no slur on his honour. And three weeks
ago, Dmitri seized him by the beard in a tavern, dragged him out
into the street and beat him publicly, and all because he is an
agent in a little business of mine."

"It's all a lie! Outwardly it's the truth, but inwardly a lie!"
Dmitri was trembling with rage. "Father, I don't justify my action.
Yes, I confess it publicly, I behaved like a brute to that captain,
and I regret it now, and I'm disgusted with myself for my brutal
rage. But this captain, this agent of yours, went to that lady whom
you call an enchantress, and suggested to her from you, that she
should take I.O.U.s of mine which were in your possession, and
should sue me for the money so as to get me into prison by means of
them, if I persisted in claiming an account from you of my
property. Now you reproach me for having a weakness for that lady
when you yourself incited her to captivate me! She told me so to my
face… . She told me the story and laughed at you… . You wanted to
put me in prison because you are jealous of me with her, because
you'd begun to force your attentions upon her; and I know all about
that, too; she laughed at you for that as well- you hear- she
laughed at you as she described it. So here you have this man, this
father who reproaches his profligate son! Gentlemen, forgive my
anger, but I foresaw that this crafty old man would only bring you
together to create a scandal. I had come to forgive him if he held
out his hand; to forgive him, and ask forgiveness! But as he has
just this minute insulted not only me, but an honourable young
lady, for whom I feel such reverence that I dare not take her name
in vain, I have made up my mind to show up his game, though he is
my father… ."

He could not go on. His eyes were glittering and he breathed
with difficulty. But everyone in the cell was stirred. All except
Father Zossima got up from their seats uneasily. The monks looked
austere but waited for guidance from the elder. He sat still, pale,
not from excitement but from the weakness of disease. An imploring
smile lighted up his face; from time to time he raised his hand, as
though to check the storm, and, of course, a gesture from him would
have been enough to end the scene; but he seemed to be waiting for
something and watched them intently as though trying to make out
something which was not perfectly clear to him. At last Miusov felt
completely humiliated and disgraced.

"We are all to blame for this scandalous scene," he said hotly.
"But I did not foresee it when I came, though I knew with whom I
had to deal. This must be stopped at once! Believe me, your
reverence, I had no precise knowledge of the details that have just
come to light, I was unwilling to believe them, and I learn for the
first time… . A father is jealous of his son's relation with a
woman of loose behaviour and intrigues with the creature to get his
son into prison! This is the company in which I have been forced to
be present! I was deceived. I declare to you all that I was as much
deceived as anyone."

"Dmitri Fyodorovitch," yelled Fyodor Pavlovitch suddenly, in an
unnatural voice, "if you were not my son I would challenge you this
instant to a duel… with pistols, at three paces… across a
handkerchief," he ended, stamping with both feet.

With old liars who have been acting all their lives there are
moments when they enter so completely into their part that they
tremble or shed tears of emotion in earnest, although at that very
moment, or a second later, they are able to whisper to themselves,
"You know you are lying, you shameless old sinner! You're acting
now, in spite of your 'holy' wrath."

