


Chapter

6
The First Interview with Smerdyakov


THIS was the third time that Ivan had been to see Smerdyakov
since his return from Moscow. The first time he had seen him and
talked to him was on the first day of his arrival, then he had
visited him once more, a fortnight later. But his visits had ended
with that second one, so that it was now over a month since he had
seen him. And he had scarcely heard anything of him.

Ivan had only returned five days after his father's death, so
that he was not present at the funeral, which took place the day
before he came back. The cause of his delay was that Alyosha, not
knowing his Moscow address, had to apply to Katerina Ivanovna to
telegraph to him, and she, not knowing his address either,
telegraphed to her sister and aunt, reckoning on Ivan's going to
see them as soon as he arrived in Moscow. But he did not go to them
till four days after his arrival. When he got the telegram, he had,
of course, set off post-haste to our town. The first to meet him
was Alyosha, and Ivan was greatly surprised to find that, in
opposition to the general opinion of the town, he refused to
entertain a suspicion against Mitya, and spoke openly of Smerdyakov
as the murderer. Later on, after seeing the police captain and the
prosecutor, and hearing the details of the charge and the arrest,
he was still more surprised at Alyosha, and ascribed his opinion
only to his exaggerated brotherly feeling and sympathy with Mitya,
of whom Alyosha, as Ivan knew, was very fond.

By the way, let us say a word or two of Ivan's feeling to his
brother Dmitri. He positively disliked him; at most, felt sometimes
a compassion for him, and even that was mixed with great contempt,
almost repugnance. Mitya's whole personality, even his appearance,
was extremely unattractive to him. Ivan looked with indignation on
Katerina Ivanovna's love for his brother. Yet he went to see Mitya
on the first day of his arrival, and that interview, far from
shaking Ivan's belief in his guilt, positively strengthened it. He
found his brother agitated, nervously excited. Mitya had been
talkative, but very absent-minded and incoherent. He used violent
language, accused Smerdyakov, and was fearfully muddled. He talked
principally about the three thousand roubles, which he said had
been "stolen" from him by his father.

"The money was mine, it was my money," Mitya kept repeating.
"Even if I had stolen it, I should have had the right."

He hardly contested the evidence against him, and if he tried to
turn a fact to his advantage, it was in an absurd and incoherent
way. He hardly seemed to wish to defend himself to Ivan or anyone
else. Quite the contrary, he was angry and proudly scornful of the
charges against him; he was continually firing up and abusing
everyone. He only laughed contemptuously at Grigory's evidence
about the open door, and declared that it was "the devil that
opened it." But he could not bring forward any coherent explanation
of the fact. He even succeeded in insulting Ivan during their first
interview, telling him sharply that it was not for people who
declared that "everything was lawful," to suspect and question him.
Altogether he was anything but friendly with Ivan on that occasion.
Immediately after that interview with Mitya, Ivan went for the
first time to see Smerdyakov.

In the railway train on his way from Moscow, he kept thinking of
Smerdyakov and of his last conversation with him on the evening
before he went away. Many things seemed to him puzzling and
suspicious. when he gave his evidence to the investigating lawyer
Ivan said nothing, for the time, of that conversation. He put that
off till he had seen Smerdyakov, who was at that time in the
hospital.

Doctor Herzenstube and Varvinsky, the doctor he met in the
hospital, confidently asserted in reply to Ivan's persistent
questions, that Smerdyakov's epileptic attack was unmistakably
genuine, and were surprised indeed at Ivan asking whether he might
not have been shamming on the day of the catastrophe. They gave him
to understand that the attack was an exceptional one, the fits
persisting and recurring several times, so that the patient's life
was positively in danger, and it was only now, after they had
applied remedies, that they could assert with confidence that the
patient would survive. "Though it might well be," added Doctor
Herzenstube, "that his reason would be impaired for a considerable
period, if not permanently." On Ivan's asking impatiently whether
that meant that he was now mad, they told him that this was not yet
the case, in the full sense of the word, but that certain
abnormalities were perceptible. Ivan decided to find out for
himself what those abnormalities were.
