
"Brother," Alyosha interposed, "restrain yourself. It was not
you murdered him. It's not true!"

"That's what he says, he, and he knows it. 'You are going to
perform an act of heroic virtue, and you don't believe in virtue;
that's what tortures you and makes you angry, that's why you are so
vindictive.' He said that to me about me and he knows what he
says."

"It's you say that, not he," exclaimed Alyosha mournfully, "and
you say it because you are ill and delirious, tormenting
yourself."

"No, he knows what he says. 'You are going from pride,' he says.
'You'll stand up and say it was I killed him, and why do you writhe
with horror? You are lying! I despise your opinion, I despise your
horror!' He said that about me. 'And do you know you are longing
for their praise- "he is a criminal, a murderer, but what a
generous soul; he wanted to save his brother and he confessed."
That's a lie Alyosha!" Ivan cried suddenly, with flashing eyes. "I
don't want the low rabble to praise me, I swear I don't! That's a
lie! That's why I threw the glass at him and it broke against his
ugly face."

"Brother, calm yourself, stop!" Alyosha entreated him.

"Yes, he knows how to torment one. He's cruel," Ivan went on,
unheeding. "I had an inkling from the first what he came for.
'Granting that you go through pride, still you had a hope that
Smerdyakov might be convicted and sent to Siberia, and Mitya would
be acquitted, while you would only be punished, with moral
condemnation' ('Do you hear?' he laughed then)- 'and some people
will praise you. But now Smerdyakov's dead, he has hanged himself,
and who'll believe you alone? But yet you are going, you are going,
you'll go all the same, you've decided to go. What are you going
for now?' That's awful, Alyosha. I can't endure such questions. Who
dare ask me such questions?"

"Brother," interposed Alyosha- his heart sank with terror, but
he still seemed to hope to bring Ivan to reason- "how could he have
told you of Smerdyakov's death before I came, when no one knew of
it and there was no time for anyone to know of it?"

"He told me," said Ivan firmly, refusing to admit a doubt. "It
was all he did talk about, if you come to that. 'And it would be
all right if you believed in virtue,' he said. 'No matter if they
disbelieve you, you are going for the sake of principle. But you
are a little pig like Fyodor Pavlovitch, and what do you want with
virtue? Why do you want to go meddling if your sacrifice is of no
use to anyone? Because you don't know yourself why you go! Oh,
you'd give a great deal to know yourself why you go! And can you
have made up your mind? You've not made up your mind. You'll sit
all night deliberating whether to go or not. But you will go; you
know you'll go. You know that whichever way you decide, the
decision does not depend on you. You'll go because you won't dare
not to go. Why won't you dare? You must guess that for yourself.
That's a riddle for you!' He got up and went away. You came and he
went. He called me a coward, Alyosha! Le mot de l'enigme is that I
am a coward. 'It is not for such eagles to soar above the earth.'It
was he added that- he! And Smerdyakov said the same. He must be
killed! Katya despises me. I've seen that for a month past. Even
Lise will begin to despise me! 'You are going in order to be
praised.' That's a brutal lie! And you despise me too, Alyosha. Now
I am going to hate you again! And I hate the monster, too! I hate
the monster! I don't want to save the monster. Let him rot in
Siberia! He's begun singing a hymn! Oh, to-morrow I'll go, stand
before them, and spit in their faces!"

He jumped up in a frenzy, flung off the towel, and fell to
pacing up and down the room again. Alyosha recalled what he had
just said. "I seem to be sleeping awake… I walk, I speak, I see,
but I am asleep." It seemed to be just like that now. Alyosha did
not leave him. The thought passed through his mind to run for a
doctor, but he was afraid to leave his brother alone: there was no
one to whom he could leave him. By degrees Ivan lost consciousness
completely at last. He still went on talking, talking incessantly,
but quite incoherently, and even articulated his words with
difficulty. Suddenly he staggered violently; but Alyosha was in
time to support him. Ivan let him lead him to his bed. Alyosha
undressed him somehow and put him to bed. He sat watching over him
for another two hours. The sick man slept soundly, without
stirring, breathing softly and evenly. Alyosha took a pillow and
lay down on the sofa, without undressing.

As he fell asleep he prayed for Mitya and Ivan. He began to
understand Ivan's illness. "The anguish of a proud determination.
An earnest conscience!" God, in Whom he disbelieved, and His truth
were gaining mastery over his heart, which still refused to submit.
"Yes," the thought floated through Alyosha's head as it lay on the
pillow, "yes, if Smerdyakov is dead, no one will believe Ivan's
evidence; but he will go and give it." Alyosha smiled softly. "God
will conquer!" he thought. "He will either rise up in the light of
truth, or… he'll perish in hate, revenging on himself and on
everyone his having served the cause he does not believe in,"
Alyosha added bitterly, and again he prayed for Ivan.

