"But the prisoner even then did not murder him- I maintain that,
I cry that aloud!- no, he only brandished the pestle in a burst of
indignant disgust, not meaning to kill him, not knowing that he
would kill him. Had he not had this fatal pestle in his hand, he
would have only knocked his father down perhaps, but would not have
killed him. As he ran away, he did not know whether he had killed
the old man. Such a murder is not a murder. Such a murder is not a
parricide. No, the murder of such a father cannot be called
parricide. Such a murder can only be reckoned parricide by
prejudice.

"But I appeal to you again and again from the depths of my soul;
did this murder actually take place? Gentlemen of the jury, if we
convict and punish him, he will say to himself: 'These people have
done nothing for my bringing up, for my education, nothing to
improve my lot, nothing to make me better, nothing to make me a
man. These people have not given me to eat and to drink, have not
visited me in prison and nakedness, and here they have sent me to
penal servitude. I am quits, I owe them nothing now, and owe no one
anything for ever. They are wicked and I will be wicked. They are
cruel and I will be cruel.' That is what he will say, gentlemen of
the jury. And I swear, by finding him guilty you will only make it
easier for him: you will ease his conscience, he will curse the
blood he has shed and will not regret it. At the same time you will
destroy in him the possibility of becoming a new man, for he will
remain in his wickedness and blindness all his life.

"But do you want to punish him fearfully, terribly, with the
most awful punishment that could be imagined, and at the same time
to save him and regenerate his soul? If so, overwhelm him with your
mercy! You will see, you will hear how he will tremble and be
horror-struck. 'How can I endure this mercy? How can I endure so
much love? Am I worthy of it?' That's what he will exclaim.

"Oh, I know, I know that heart, that wild but grateful heart,
gentlemen of the jury! It will bow before your mercy; it thirsts
for a great and loving action, it will melt and mount upwards.
There are souls which, in their limitation, blame the whole world.
But subdue such a soul with mercy, show it love, and it will curse
its past, for there are many good impulses in it. Such a heart will
expand and see that God is merciful and that men are good and just.
He will be horror-stricken; he will be crushed by remorse and the
vast obligation laid upon him henceforth. And he will not say then,
'I am quits,' but will say, 'I am guilty in the sight of all men
and am more unworthy than all.' With tears of penitence and
poignant, tender anguish, he will exclaim: 'Others are better than
I, they wanted to save me, not to ruin me!' Oh, this act of mercy
is so easy for you, for in the absence of anything like real
evidence it will be too awful for you to pronounce: 'Yes, he is
guilty.'

"Better acquit ten guilty men than punish one innocent man! Do
you hear, do you hear that majestic voice from the past century of
our glorious history? It is not for an insignificant person like me
to remind you that the Russian court does not exist for the
punishment only, but also for the salvation of the criminal! Let
other nations think of retribution and the letter of the law, we
will cling to the spirit and the meaning- the salvation and the
reformation of the lost. If this is true, if Russia and her justice
are such, she may go forward with good cheer! Do not try to scare
us with your frenzied troikas from which all the nations stand
aside in disgust. Not a runaway troika, but the stately chariot of
Russia will move calmly and majestically to its goal. In your hands
is the fate of my client, in your hands is the fate of Russian
justice. You will defend it, you will save it, you will prove that
there are men to watch over it, that it is in good hands!"




