


Chapter

1

&#160;


THE quaint town of Thorn, on the Vistula,
[1]
was
more than two centuries old when Copernicus was born there on the
19th of February, 1473. The situation of this town on the frontier
between Prussia and Poland, with the commodious waterway offered by
the river, made it a place of considerable trade. A view of the
town, as it was at the time of the birth of Copernicus, is here
given.
[2]
The walls, with their watch-towers, will
be noted, and the strategic importance which the situation of Thorn
gave to it in the fifteenth century still belongs thereto, so much
so that the German Government recently constituted the town a
fortress of the first class.

Copernicus, the astronomer, whose discoveries make him the great
predecessor of Kepler and Newton, did not come from a noble family,
as certain other early astronomers have done, for his father was a
tradesman. Chroniclers are, however, careful to tell us that one of
his uncles was a bishop. We are not acquainted with any of those
details of his childhood or youth which are often of such interest
in other cases where men have risen to exalted fame. It would
appear that the young Nicolaus, for such was his Christian name,
received his education at home until such time as he was deemed
sufficiently advanced to be sent to the University at Cracow. The
education that he there obtained must have been in those days of a
very primitive description, but Copernicus seems to have availed
himself of it to the utmost. He devoted himself more particularly
to the study of medicine, with the view of adopting its practice as
the profession of his life. The tendencies of the future astronomer
were, however, revealed in the fact that he worked hard at
mathematics, and, like one of his illustrious successors, Galileo,
the practice of the art of painting had for him a very great
interest, and in it he obtained some measure of success.

By the time he was twenty-seven years old, it would seem that
Copernicus had given up the notion of becoming a medical
practitioner, and had resolved to devote himself to science. He was
engaged in teaching mathematics, and appears to have acquired some
reputation. His growing fame attracted the notice of his uncle the
bishop, at whose suggestion Copernicus took holy orders, and he was
presently appointed to a canonry in the cathedral of Frauenhurg,
near the mouth of the Vistula.

To Frauenburg, accordingly, this man of varied gifts retired.
Possessing somewhat of the ascetic spirit, he resolved to devote
his life to work of the most serious description. He eschewed all
ordinary society, restricting his intimacies to very grave and
learned companions, and refusing to engage in conversation of any
useless kind. It would seem as if his gifts for painting were
condemned as frivolous; at all events, we do not learn that he
continued to practise them. In addition to the discharge of his
theological duties, his life was occupied partly in ministering
medically to the wants of the poor, and partly with his researches
in astronomy and mathematics. His equipment in the matter of
instruments for the study of the heavens seems to have been of a
very meagre description. He arranged apertures in the walls of his
house at Allenstein, so that he could observe in some fashion the
passage of the stars across the meridian. That he possessed some
talent for practical mechanics is proved by his construction of a
contrivance for raising water from a stream, for the use of the
inhabitants of Frauenburg. Relics of this machine are still to be
Been.

