, up in the apple
tree. Beth began by rummaging everything out of the big closet
where her family resided, but getting tired before half done, she
left her establishment topsy-turvy and went to her music, rejoicing
that she had no dishes to wash. Amy arranged her bower, put on her
best white frock, smoothed her curls, and sat down to draw under
the honeysuckle, hoping someone would see and inquire who the young
artist was. As no one appeared but an inquisitive daddy-longlegs,
who examined her work with interest, she went to walk, got caught
in a shower, and came home dripping.

At teatime they compared notes, and all agreed that it had been
a delightful, though unusually long day. Meg, who went shopping in
the afternoon and got a 'sweet blue muslin', had discovered, after
she had cut the breadths off, that it wouldn't wash, which mishap
made her slightly cross. Jo had burned the skin off her nose
boating, and got a raging headache by reading too long. Beth was
worried by the confusion of her closet and the difficulty of
learning three or four songs at once, and Amy deeply regretted the
damage done her frock, for Katy Brown's party was to be the next
day and now like Flora McFlimsey, she had 'nothing to wear'. But
these were mere trifles, and they assured their mother that the
experiment was working finely. She smiled, said nothing, and with
Hannah's help did their neglected work, keeping home pleasant and
the domestic machinery running smoothly. It was astonishing what a
peculiar and uncomfortable state of things was produced by the
'resting and reveling' process. The days kept getting longer and
longer, the weather was unusually variable and so were tempers; an
unsettled feeling possessed everyone, and Satan found plenty of
mischief for the idle hands to do. As the height of luxury, Meg put
out some of her sewing, and then found time hang so heavily, that
she fell to snipping and spoiling her clothes in her attempts to
furbish them up a la Moffat. Jo read till her eyes gave out and she
was sick of books, got so fidgety that even good-natured Laurie had
a quarrel with her, and so reduced in spirits that she desperately
wished she had gone with Aunt March. Beth got on pretty well, for
she was constantly forgetting that it was to be all play and no
work, and fell back into her old ways now and then. But something
in the air affected her, and more than once her tranquility was
much disturbed, so much so that on one occasion she actually shook
poor dear Joanna and told her she was 'a fright'. Amy fared worst
of all, for her resources were small, and when her sisters left her
to amuse herself, she soon found that accomplished and important
little self a great burden. She didn't like dolls, fairy tales were
childish, and one couldn't draw all the time. Tea parties didn't
amount to much, neither did picnics, unless very well conducted.
"If one could have a fine house, full of nice girls, or go
traveling, the summer would be delightful, but to stay at home with
three selfish sisters and a grown-up boy was enough to try the
patience of a Boaz," complained Miss Malaprop, after several days
devoted to pleasure, fretting, and ennui.

No one would own that they were tired of the experiment, but by
Friday night each acknowledged to herself that she was glad the
week was nearly done. Hoping to impress the lesson more deeply,
Mrs. March, who had a good deal of humor, resolved to finish off
the trial in an appropriate manner, so she gave Hannah a holiday
and let the girls enjoy the full effect of the play system.

When they got up on Saturday morning, there was no fire in the
kitchen, no breakfast in the dining room, and no mother anywhere to
be seen.

"Mercy on us! What has happened?" cried Jo, staring about her in
dismay.

Meg ran upstairs and soon came back again, looking relieved but
rather bewildered, and a little ashamed.

"Mother isn't sick, only very tired, and she says she is going
to stay quietly in her room all day and let us do the best we can.
It's a very queer thing for her to do, she doesn't act a bit like
herself. But she says it has been a hard week for her, so we
mustn't grumble but take care of ourselves."

"That's easy enough, and I like the idea, I'm aching for
something to do, that is, some new amusement, you know," added Jo
quickly.

In fact it was an immense relief to them all to have a little
work, and they took hold with a will, but soon realized the truth
of Hannah's saying, "Housekeeping ain't no joke." There was plenty
of food in the larder, and while Beth and Amy set the table, Meg
and Jo got breakfast, wondering as they did why servants ever
talked about hard work.

"I shall take some up to Mother, though she said we were not to
think of her, for she'd take care of herself," said Meg, who
presided and felt quite matronly behind the teapot.

So a tray was fitted out before anyone began, and taken up with
the cook's compliments. The boiled tea was very bitter, the omelet
scorched, and the biscuits speckled with saleratus, but Mrs. March
received her repast with thanks and laughed heartily over it after
Jo was gone.
