
"A ravishingly lovely lady, who exclaimed, with a cry of
rapture, 'At last! At last!'" continued Kate, who had read French
novels, and admired the style. "'Tis she!' cried Count Gustave, and
fell at her feet in an ecstasy of joy. 'Oh, rise!' she said,
extending a hand of marble fairness. 'Never! Till you tell me how I
may rescue you,' swore the knight, still kneeling. 'Alas, my cruel
fate condemns me to remain here till my tyrant is destroyed.'
'Where is the villain?' 'In the mauve salon. Go, brave heart, and
save me from despair.' 'I obey, and return victorious or dead!'
With these thrilling words he rushed away, and flinging open the
door of the mauve salon, was about to enter, when he received…
"

"A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon, which an old fellow
in a black gown fired at him," said Ned. "Instantly, Sir
What's-his-name recovered himself, pitched the tyrant out of the
window, and turned to join the lady, victorious, but with a bump on
his brow, found the door locked, tore up the curtains, made a rope
ladder, got halfway down when the ladder broke, and he went
headfirst into the moat, sixty feet below. Could swim like a duck,
paddled round the castle till he came to a little door guarded by
two stout fellows, knocked their heads together till they cracked
like a couple of nuts, then, by a trifling exertion of his
prodigious strength, he smashed in the door, went up a pair of
stone steps covered with dust a foot thick, toads as big as your
fist, and spiders that would frighten you into hysterics, Miss
March. At the top of these steps he came plump upon a sight that
took his breath away and chilled his blood… "

"A tall figure, all in white with a veil over its face and a
lamp in its wasted hand," went on Meg. "It beckoned, gliding
noiselessly before him down a corridor as dark and cold as any
tomb. Shadowy effigies in armor stood on either side, a dead
silence reigned, the lamp burned blue, and the ghostly figure ever
and anon turned its face toward him, showing the glitter of awful
eyes through its white veil. They reached a curtained door, behind
which sounded lovely music. He sprang forward to enter, but the
specter plucked him back, and waved threateningly before him a…
"

"Snuffbox," said Jo, in a sepulchral tone, which convulsed the
audience. "'Thankee,' said the knight politely, as he took a pinch
and sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off. 'Ha!
Ha!' laughed the ghost, and having peeped through the keyhole at
the princesses spinning away for dear life, the evil spirit picked
up her victim and put him in a large tin box, where there were
eleven other knights packed together without their heads, like
sardines, who all rose and began to… "

"Dance a hornpipe," cut in Fred, as Jo paused for breath, "and,
as they danced, the rubbishy old castle turned to a man-of-war in
full sail. 'Up with the jib, reef the tops'l halliards, helm hard
alee, and man the guns!' roared the captain, as a Portuguese pirate
hove in sight, with a flag black as ink flying from her foremast.
'Go in and win, my hearties!' says the captain, and a tremendous
fight began. Of course the British beat—they always do."

"No, they don't!" cried Jo, aside.

"Having taken the pirate captain prisoner, sailed slap over the
schooner, whose decks were piled high with dead and whose lee
scuppers ran blood, for the order had been 'Cutlasses, and die
hard!' 'Bosun's mate, take a bight of the flying-jib sheet, and
start this villain if he doesn't confess his sins double quick,'
said the British captain. The Portuguese held his tongue like a
brick, and walked the plank, while the jolly tars cheered like mad.
But the sly dog dived, came up under the man-of-war, scuttled her,
and down she went, with all sail set, 'To the bottom of the sea,
sea, sea' where… "

"Oh, gracious! What shall I say?" cried Sallie, as Fred ended
his rigmarole, in which he had jumbled together pell-mell nautical
phrases and facts out of one of his favorite books. "Well, they
went to the bottom, and a nice mermaid welcomed them, but was much
grieved on finding the box of headless knights, and kindly pickled
them in brine, hoping to discover the mystery about them, for being
a woman, she was curious. By-and-by a diver came down, and the
mermaid said, 'I'll give you a box of pearls if you can take it
up,' for she wanted to restore the poor things to life, and
couldn't raise the heavy load herself. So the diver hoisted it up,
and was much disappointed on opening it to find no pearls. He left
it in a great lonely field, where it was found by a… "

"Little goose girl, who kept a hundred fat geese in the field,"
said Amy, when Sallie's invention gave out. "The little girl was
sorry for them, and asked an old woman what she should do to help
them. 'Your geese will tell you, they know everything.' said the
old woman. So she asked what she should use for new heads, since
the old ones were lost, and all the geese opened their hundred
mouths and screamed… "

"'Cabbages!'" continued Laurie promptly. "'Just the thing,' said
the girl, and ran to get twelve fine ones from her garden. She put
them on, the knights revived at once, thanked her, and went on
their way rejoicing, never knowing the difference, for there were
so many other heads like them in the world that no one thought
anything of it. The knight in whom I'm interested went back to find
the pretty face, and learned that the princesses had spun
themselves free and all gone and married, but one. He was in a
great state of mind at that, and mounting the colt, who stood by
him through thick and thin, rushed to the castle to see which was
left. Peeping over the hedge, he saw the queen of his affections
picking flowers in her garden. 'Will you give me a rose?' said he.
'You must come and get it. I can't come to you, it isn't proper,'
said she, as sweet as honey. He tried to climb over the hedge, but
it seemed to grow higher and higher. Then he tried to push through,
but it grew thicker and thicker, and he was in despair. So he
patiently broke twig after twig till he had made a little hole
through which he peeped, saying imploringly, 'Let me in! Let me
in!' But the pretty princess did not seem to understand, for she
picked her roses quietly, and left him to fight his way in. Whether
he did or not, Frank will tell you."

