


Chapter

2
A
Merry Christmas


Jo was the first to wake in the gray dawn of Christmas morning.
No stockings hung at the fireplace, and for a moment she felt as
much disappointed as she did long ago, when her little sock fell
down because it was crammed so full of goodies. Then she remembered
her mother's promise and, slipping her hand under her pillow, drew
out a little crimson-covered book. She knew it very well, for it
was that beautiful old story of the best life ever lived, and Jo
felt that it was a true guidebook for any pilgrim going on a long
journey. She woke Meg with a "Merry Christmas," and bade her see
what was under her pillow. A green-covered book appeared, with the
same picture inside, and a few words written by their mother, which
made their one present very precious in their eyes. Presently Beth
and Amy woke to rummage and find their little books also, one
dove-colored, the other blue, and all sat looking at and talking
about them, while the east grew rosy with the coming day.

In spite of her small vanities, Margaret had a sweet and pious
nature, which unconsciously influenced her sisters, especially Jo,
who loved her very tenderly, and obeyed her because her advice was
so gently given.

"Girls," said Meg seriously, looking from the tumbled head
beside her to the two little night-capped ones in the room beyond,
"Mother wants us to read and love and mind these books, and we must
begin at once. We used to be faithful about it, but since Father
went away and all this war trouble unsettled us, we have neglected
many things. You can do as you please, but I shall keep my book on
the table here and read a little every morning as soon as I wake,
for I know it will do me good and help me through the day."

Then she opened her new book and began to read. Jo put her arm
round her and, leaning cheek to cheek, read also, with the quiet
expression so seldom seen on her restless face.

"How good Meg is! Come, Amy, let's do as they do. I'll help you
with the hard words, and they'll explain things if we don't
understand," whispered Beth, very much impressed by the pretty
books and her sisters' example.

"I'm glad mine is blue," said Amy. and then the rooms were very
still while the pages were softly turned, and the winter sunshine
crept in to touch the bright heads and serious faces with a
Christmas greeting.

"Where is Mother?" asked Meg, as she and Jo ran down to thank
her for their gifts, half an hour later.
