"Christopher Columbus! What's the matter?" cried Jo, as Beth put
out her hand as if to warn her off, and asked quicklyâ€¦

"You've had the scarlet fever, haven't you?"

"Years ago, when Meg did. Why?"

"Then I'll tell you. Oh, Jo, the baby's dead!"

"What baby?"

"Mrs. Hummel's. It died in my lap before she got home," cried
Beth with a sob.

"My poor dear, how dreadful for you! I ought to have gone," said
Jo, taking her sister in her arms as she sat down in her mother's
big chair, with a remorseful face.

"It wasn't dreadful, Jo, only so sad! I saw in a minute it was
sicker, but Lottchen said her mother had gone for a doctor, so I
took Baby and let Lotty rest. It seemed asleep, but all of a sudden
if gave a little cry and trembled, and then lay very still. I tried
to warm its feet, and Lotty gave it some milk, but it didn't stir,
and I knew it was dead."

"Don't cry, dear! What did you do?"

"I just sat and held it softly till Mrs. Hummel came with the
doctor. He said it was dead, and looked at Heinrich and Minna, who
have sore throats. 'Scarlet fever, ma'am. Ought to have called me
before,' he said crossly. Mrs. Hummel told him she was poor, and
had tried to cure baby herself, but now it was too late, and she
could only ask him to help the others and trust to charity for his
pay. He smiled then, and was kinder, but it was very sad, and I
cried with them till he turned round all of a sudden, and told me
to go home and take belladonna right away, or I'd have the
fever."

"No, you won't!" cried Jo, hugging her close, with a frightened
look. "Oh, Beth, if you should be sick I never could forgive
myself! What shall we do?"
