


Chapter

18
Dark Days


Beth did have the fever, and was much sicker than anyone but
Hannah and the doctor suspected. The girls knew nothing about
illness, and Mr. Laurence was not allowed to see her, so Hannah had
everything her own way, and busy Dr. Bangs did his best, but left a
good deal to the excellent nurse. Meg stayed at home, lest she
should infect the Kings, and kept house, feeling very anxious and a
little guilty when she wrote letters in which no mention was made
of Beth's illness. She could not think it right to deceive her
mother, but she had been bidden to mind Hannah, and Hannah wouldn't
hear of 'Mrs. March bein' told, and worried just for sech a
trifle.'

Jo devoted herself to Beth day and night, not a hard task, for
Beth was very patient, and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long as
she could control herself. But there came a time when during the
fever fits she began to talk in a hoarse, broken voice, to play on
the coverlet as if on her beloved little piano, and try to sing
with a throat so swollen that there was no music left, a time when
she did not know the familiar faces around her, but addressed them
by wrong names, and called imploringly for her mother. Then Jo grew
frightened, Meg begged to be allowed to write the truth, and even
Hannah said she 'would think of it, though there was no danger
yet'. A letter from Washington added to their trouble, for Mr.
March had had a relapse, and could not think of coming home for a
long while.

How dark the days seemed now, how sad and lonely the house, and
how heavy were the hearts of the sisters as they worked and waited,
while the shadow of death hovered over the once happy home. Then it
was that Margaret, sitting alone with tears dropping often on her
work, felt how rich she had been in things more precious than any
luxuries money could buyâ€”in love, protection, peace, and health,
the real blessings of life. Then it was that Jo, living in the
darkened room, with that suffering little sister always before her
eyes and that pathetic voice sounding in her ears, learned to see
the beauty and the sweetness of Beth's nature, to feel how deep and
tender a place she filled in all hearts, and to acknowledge the
worth of Beth's unselfish ambition to live for others, and make
home happy by that exercise of those simple virtues which all may
possess, and which all should love and value more than talent,
wealth, or beauty. And Amy, in her exile, longed eagerly to be at
home, that she might work for Beth, feeling now that no service
would be hard or irksome, and remembering, with regretful grief,
how many neglected tasks those willing hands had done for her.
Laurie haunted the house like a restless ghost, and Mr. Laurence
locked the grand piano, because he could not bear to be reminded of
the young neighbor who used to make the twilight pleasant for him.
Everyone missed Beth. The milkman, baker, grocer, and butcher
inquired how she did, poor Mrs. Hummel came to beg pardon for her
thoughtlessness and to get a shroud for Minna, the neighbors sent
all sorts of comforts and good wishes, and even those who knew her
best were surprised to find how many friends shy little Beth had
made.

Meanwhile she lay on her bed with old Joanna at her side, for
even in her wanderings she did not forget her forlorn protege. She
longed for her cats, but would not have them brought, lest they
should get sick, and in her quiet hours she was full of anxiety
about Jo. She sent loving messages to Amy, bade them tell her
mother that she would write soon, and often begged for pencil and
paper to try to say a word, that Father might not think she had
neglected him. But soon even these intervals of consciousness
ended, and she lay hour after hour, tossing to and fro, with
incoherent words on her lips, or sank into a heavy sleep which
brought her no refreshment. Dr. Bangs came twice a day, Hannah sat
up at night, Meg kept a telegram in her desk all ready to send off
at any minute, and Jo never stirred from Beth's side.

The first of December was a wintry day indeed to them, for a
bitter wind blew, snow fell fast, and the year seemed getting ready
for its death. When Dr. Bangs came that morning, he looked long at
Beth, held the hot hand in both his own for a minute, and laid it
gently down, saying, in a low voice to Hannah, "If Mrs. March can
leave her husband she'd better be sent for."

Hannah nodded without speaking, for her lips twitched nervously,
Meg dropped down into a chair as the strength seemed to go out of
her limbs at the sound of those words, and Jo, standing with a pale
face for a minute, ran to the parlor, snatched up the telegram, and
throwing on her things, rushed out into the storm. She was soon
back, and while noiselessly taking off her cloak, Laurie came in
with a letter, saying that Mr. March was mending again. Jo read it
thankfully, but the heavy weight did not seem lifted off her heart,
and her face was so full of misery that Laurie asked quickly, "What
is it? Is Beth worse?"

"I've sent for Mother," said Jo, tugging at her rubber boots
with a tragic expression.
