
At that minute Jo was particularly absorbed in dressmaking, for
she was mantua-maker general to the family, and took especial
credit to herself because she could use a needle as well as a pen.
It was very provoking to be arrested in the act of a first
trying-on, and ordered out to make calls in her best array on a
warm July day. She hated calls of the formal sort, and never made
any till Amy compelled her with a bargain, bribe, or promise. In
the present instance there was no escape, and having clashed her
scissors rebelliously, while protesting that she smelled thunder,
she gave in, put away her work, and taking up her hat and gloves
with an air of resignation, told Amy the victim was ready.

"Jo March, you are perverse enough to provoke a saint! You don't
intend to make calls in that state, I hope," cried Amy, surveying
her with amazement.

"Why not? I'm neat and cool and comfortable, quite proper for a
dusty walk on a warm day. If people care more for my clothes than
they do for me, I don't wish to see them. You can dress for both,
and be as elegant as you please. It pays for you to be fine. It
doesn't for me, and furbelows only worry me."

"Oh, dear!" sighed Amy, "now she's in a contrary fit, and will
drive me distracted before I can get her properly ready. I'm sure
it's no pleasure to me to go today, but it's a debt we owe society,
and there's no one to pay it but you and me. I'll do anything for
you, Jo, if you'll only dress yourself nicely, and come and help me
do the civil. You can talk so well, look so aristocratic in your
best things, and behave so beautifully, if you try, that I'm proud
of you. I'm afraid to go alone, do come and take care of me."

"You're an artful little puss to flatter and wheedle your cross
old sister in that way. The idea of my being aristocratic and
well-bred, and your being afraid to go anywhere alone! I don't know
which is the most absurd. Well, I'll go if I must, and do my best.
You shall be commander of the expedition, and I'll obey blindly,
will that satisfy you?" said Jo, with a sudden change from
perversity to lamblike submission.

"You're a perfect cherub! Now put on all your best things, and
I'll tell you how to behave at each place, so that you will make a
good impression. I want people to like you, and they would if you'd
only try to be a little more agreeable. Do your hair the pretty
way, and put the pink rose in your bonnet. It's becoming, and you
look too sober in your plain suit. Take your light gloves and the
embroidered handkerchief. We'll stop at Meg's, and borrow her white
sunshade, and then you can have my dove-colored one."

While Amy dressed, she issued her orders, and Jo obeyed them,
not without entering her protest, however, for she sighed as she
rustled into her new organdie, frowned darkly at herself as she
tied her bonnet strings in an irreproachable bow, wrestled
viciously with pins as she put on her collar, wrinkled up her
features generally as she shook out the handkerchief, whose
embroidery was as irritating to her nose as the present mission was
to her feelings, and when she had squeezed her hands into tight
gloves with three buttons and a tassel, as the last touch of
elegance, she turned to Amy with an imbecile expression of
countenance, saying meeklyâ€¦

"I'm perfectly miserable, but if you consider me presentable, I
die happy."

"You're highly satisfactory. Turn slowly round, and let me get a
careful view." Jo revolved, and Amy gave a touch here and there,
then fell back, with her head on one side, observing graciously,
"Yes, you'll do. Your head is all I could ask, for that white
bonnet with the rose is quite ravishing. Hold back your shoulders,
and carry your hands easily, no matter if your gloves do pinch.
There's one thing you can do well, Jo, that is, wear a shawl. I
can't, but it's very nice to see you, and I'm so glad Aunt March
gave you that lovely one. It's simple, but handsome, and those
folds over the arm are really artistic. Is the point of my mantle
in the middle, and have I looped my dress evenly? I like to show my
boots, for my feet are pretty, though my nose isn't."

"You are a thing of beauty and a joy forever," said Jo, looking
through her hand with the air of a connoisseur at the blue feather
against the golden hair. "Am I to drag my best dress through the
dust, or loop it up, please, ma'am?"

