
"Just as you please. I wash my hands of you," was Amy's short
answer.

"Then I'll enjoy myself. The boys are at home, and we'll have a
comfortable time. Goodness knows I need a little change, for
elegance has a bad effect upon my constitution," returned Jo
gruffly, being disturbed by her failure to suit.

An enthusiastic welcome from three big boys and several pretty
children speedily soothed her ruffled feelings, and leaving Amy to
entertain the hostess and Mr. Tudor, who happened to be calling
likewise, Jo devoted herself to the young folks and found the
change refreshing. She listened to college stories with deep
interest, caressed pointers and poodles without a murmur, agreed
heartily that "Tom Brown was a brick," regardless of the improper
form of praise, and when one lad proposed a visit to his turtle
tank, she went with an alacrity which caused Mamma to smile upon
her, as that motherly lady settled the cap which was left in a
ruinous condition by filial hugs, bearlike but affectionate, and
dearer to her than the most faultless coiffure from the hands of an
inspired Frenchwoman.

Leaving her sister to her own devices, Amy proceeded to enjoy
herself to her heart's content. Mr. Tudor's uncle had married an
English lady who was third cousin to a living lord, and Amy
regarded the whole family with great respect, for in spite of her
American birth and breeding, she possessed that reverence for
titles which haunts the best of usâ€”that unacknowledged loyalty to
the early faith in kings which set the most democratic nation under
the sun in ferment at the coming of a royal yellow-haired laddie,
some years ago, and which still has something to do with the love
the young country bears the old, like that of a big son for an
imperious little mother, who held him while she could, and let him
go with a farewell scolding when he rebelled. But even the
satisfaction of talking with a distant connection of the British
nobility did not render Amy forgetful of time, and when the proper
number of minutes had passed, she reluctantly tore herself from
this aristocratic society, and looked about for Jo, fervently
hoping that her incorrigible sister would not be found in any
position which should bring disgrace upon the name of March.

It might have been worse, but Amy considered it bad. For Jo sat
on the grass, with an encampment of boys about her, and a
dirty-footed dog reposing on the skirt of her state and festival
dress, as she related one of Laurie's pranks to her admiring
audience. One small child was poking turtles with Amy's cherished
parasol, a second was eating gingerbread over Jo's best bonnet, and
a third playing ball with her gloves, but all were enjoying
themselves, and when Jo collected her damaged property to go, her
escort accompanied her, begging her to come again, "It was such fun
to hear about Laurie's larks."

"Capital boys, aren't they? I feel quite young and brisk again
after that." said Jo, strolling along with her hands behind her,
partly from habit, partly to conceal the bespattered parasol.

"Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor?" asked Amy, wisely
refraining from any comment upon Jo's dilapidated appearance.

"Don't like him, he puts on airs, snubs his sisters, worries his
father, and doesn't speak respectfully of his mother. Laurie says
he is fast, and I don't consider him a desirable acquaintance, so I
let him alone."

"You might treat him civilly, at least. You gave him a cool nod,
and just now you bowed and smiled in the politest way to Tommy
Chamberlain, whose father keeps a grocery store. If you had just
reversed the nod and the bow, it would have been right," said Amy
reprovingly.

"No, it wouldn't," returned Jo, "I neither like, respect, nor
admire Tudor, though his grandfather's uncle's nephew's niece was a
third cousin to a lord. Tommy is poor and bashful and good and very
clever. I think well of him, and like to show that I do, for he is
a gentleman in spite of the brown paper parcels."

