


Chapter

7
Consequences


Mrs. Chester's fair was so very elegant and select that it was
considered a great honor by the young ladies of the neighborhood to
be invited to take a table, and everyone was much interested in the
matter. Amy was asked, but Jo was not, which was fortunate for all
parties, as her elbows were decidedly akimbo at this period of her
life, and it took a good many hard knocks to teach her how to get
on easily. The 'haughty, uninteresting creature' was let severely
alone, but Amy's talent and taste were duly complimented by the
offer of the art table, and she exerted herself to prepare and
secure appropriate and valuable contributions to it.

Everything went on smoothly till the day before the fair opened,
then there occurred one of the little skirmishes which it is almost
impossible to avoid, when some five-and-twenty women, old and
young, with all their private piques and prejudices, try to work
together.

May Chester was rather jealous of Amy because the latter was a
greater favorite than herself, and just at this time several
trifling circumstances occurred to increase the feeling. Amy's
dainty pen-and-ink work entirely eclipsed May's painted vases—that
was one thorn. Then the all conquering Tudor had danced four times
with Amy at a late party and only once with May—that was thorn
number two. But the chief grievance that rankled in her soul, and
gave an excuse for her unfriendly conduct, was a rumor which some
obliging gossip had whispered to her, that the March girls had made
fun of her at the Lambs'. All the blame of this should have fallen
upon Jo, for her naughty imitation had been too lifelike to escape
detection, and the frolicsome Lambs had permitted the joke to
escape. No hint of this had reached the culprits, however, and
Amy's dismay can be imagined, when, the very evening before the
fair, as she was putting the last touches to her pretty table, Mrs.
Chester, who, of course, resented the supposed ridicule of her
daughter, said, in a bland tone, but with a cold look…

"I find, dear, that there is some feeling among the young ladies
about my giving this table to anyone but my girls. As this is the
most prominent, and some say the most attractive table of all, and
they are the chief getters-up of the fair, it is thought best for
them to take this place. I'm sorry, but I know you are too
sincerely interested in the cause to mind a little personal
disappointment, and you shall have another table if you like."

Mrs. Chester fancied beforehand that it would be easy to deliver
this little speech, but when the time came, she found it rather
difficult to utter it naturally, with Amy's unsuspicious eyes
looking straight at her full of surprise and trouble.

Amy felt that there was something behind this, but could not
guess what, and said quietly, feeling hurt, and showing that she
did, "Perhaps you had rather I took no table at all?"

"Now, my dear, don't have any ill feeling, I beg. It's merely a
matter of expediency, you see, my girls will naturally take the
lead, and this table is considered their proper place. I think it
very appropriate to you, and feel very grateful for your efforts to
make it so pretty, but we must give up our private wishes, of
course, and I will see that you have a good place elsewhere.
Wouldn't you like the flower table? The little girls undertook it,
but they are discouraged. You could make a charming thing of it,
and the flower table is always attractive you know."
