
Much gratified, Jo rushed back to tell the good news, and Amy
looked both touched and surprised by the report of May's word and
manner.

"Now, gentlemen, I want you to go and do your duty by the other
tables as generously as you have by mine, especially the art
table," she said, ordering out 'Teddy's own', as the girls called
the college friends.

"'Charge, Chester, charge!' is the motto for that table, but do
your duty like men, and you'll get your money's worth of art in
every sense of the word," said the irrepressible Jo, as the devoted
phalanx prepared to take the field.

"To hear is to obey, but March is fairer far than May," said
little Parker, making a frantic effort to be both witty and tender,
and getting promptly quenched by Laurie, who saidâ€¦

"Very well, my son, for a small boy!" and walked him off, with a
paternal pat on the head.

"Buy the vases," whispered Amy to Laurie, as a final heaping of
coals of fire on her enemy's head.

To May's great delight, Mr. Laurence not only bought the vases,
but pervaded the hall with one under each arm. The other gentlemen
speculated with equal rashness in all sorts of frail trifles, and
wandered helplessly about afterward, burdened with wax flowers,
painted fans, filigree portfolios, and other useful and appropriate
purchases.

Aunt Carrol was there, heard the story, looked pleased, and said
something to Mrs. March in a corner, which made the latter lady
beam with satisfaction, and watch Amy with a face full of mingled
pride and anxiety, though she did not betray the cause of her
pleasure till several days later.

The fair was pronounced a success, and when May bade Amy
goodnight, she did not gush as usual, but gave her an affectionate
kiss, and a look which said 'forgive and forget'. That satisfied
Amy, and when she got home she found the vases paraded on the
parlor chimney piece with a great bouquet in each. "The reward of
merit for a magnanimous March," as Laurie announced with a
flourish.

"You've a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of
character than I ever gave you credit for, Amy. You've behaved
sweetly, and I respect you with all my heart," said Jo warmly, as
they brushed their hair together late that night.

