


Chapter

11
A
Friend


Though very happy in the social atmosphere about her, and very
busy with the daily work that earned her bread and made it sweeter
for the effort, Jo still found time for literary labors. The
purpose which now took possession of her was a natural one to a
poor and ambitious girl, but the means she took to gain her end
were not the best. She saw that money conferred power, money and
power, therefore, she resolved to have, not to be used for herself
alone, but for those whom she loved more than life. The dream of
filling home with comforts, giving Beth everything she wanted, from
strawberries in winter to an organ in her bedroom, going abroad
herself, and always having more than enough, so that she might
indulge in the luxury of charity, had been for years Jo's most
cherished castle in the air.

The prize-story experience had seemed to open a way which might,
after long traveling and much uphill work, lead to this delightful
chateau en Espagne. But the novel disaster quenched her courage for
a time, for public opinion is a giant which has frightened
stouter-hearted Jacks on bigger beanstalks than hers. Like that
immortal hero, she reposed awhile after the first attempt, which
resulted in a tumble and the least lovely of the giant's treasures,
if I remember rightly. But the 'up again and take another' spirit
was as strong in Jo as in Jack, so she scrambled up on the shady
side this time and got more booty, but nearly left behind her what
was far more precious than the moneybags.

She took to writing sensation stories, for in those dark ages,
even all-perfect America read rubbish. She told no one, but
concocted a 'thrilling tale', and boldly carried it herself to Mr.
Dashwood, editor of the Weekly Volcano. She had never read Sartor
Resartus, but she had a womanly instinct that clothes possess an
influence more powerful over many than the worth of character or
the magic of manners. So she dressed herself in her best, and
trying to persuade herself that she was neither excited nor
nervous, bravely climbed two pairs of dark and dirty stairs to find
herself in a disorderly room, a cloud of cigar smoke, and the
presence of three gentlemen, sitting with their heels rather higher
than their hats, which articles of dress none of them took the
trouble to remove on her appearance. Somewhat daunted by this
reception, Jo hesitated on the threshold, murmuring in much
embarrassment…

"Excuse me, I was looking for the Weekly Volcano office. I
wished to see Mr. Dashwood."

Down went the highest pair of heels, up rose the smokiest
gentleman, and carefully cherishing his cigar between his fingers,
he advanced with a nod and a countenance expressive of nothing but
sleep. Feeling that she must get through the matter somehow, Jo
produced her manuscript and, blushing redder and redder with each
sentence, blundered out fragments of the little speech carefully
prepared for the occasion.

"A friend of mine desired me to offer—a story—just as an
experiment—would like your opinion—be glad to write more if this
suits."

While she blushed and blundered, Mr. Dashwood had taken the
manuscript, and was turning over the leaves with a pair of rather
dirty fingers, and casting critical glances up and down the neat
pages.
