
"I'll call. Good morning, Sir."

As she departed, Mr. Dashwood put up his feet, with the graceful
remark, "Poor and proud, as usual, but she'll do."

Following Mr. Dashwood's directions, and making Mrs. Northbury
her model, Jo rashly took a plunge into the frothy sea of
sensational literature, but thanks to the life preserver thrown her
by a friend, she came up again not much the worse for her
ducking.

Like most young scribblers, she went abroad for her characters
and scenery, and banditti, counts, gypsies, nuns, and duchesses
appeared upon her stage, and played their parts with as much
accuracy and spirit as could be expected. Her readers were not
particular about such trifles as grammar, punctuation, and
probability, and Mr. Dashwood graciously permitted her to fill his
columns at the lowest prices, not thinking it necessary to tell her
that the real cause of his hospitality was the fact that one of his
hacks, on being offered higher wages, had basely left him in the
lurch.

She soon became interested in her work, for her emaciated purse
grew stout, and the little hoard she was making to take Beth to the
mountains next summer grew slowly but surely as the weeks passed.
One thing disturbed her satisfaction, and that was that she did not
tell them at home. She had a feeling that Father and Mother would
not approve, and preferred to have her own way first, and beg
pardon afterward. It was easy to keep her secret, for no name
appeared with her stories. Mr. Dashwood had of course found it out
very soon, but promised to be dumb, and for a wonder kept his
word.

She thought it would do her no harm, for she sincerely meant to
write nothing of which she would be ashamed, and quieted all pricks
of conscience by anticipations of the happy minute when she should
show her earnings and laugh over her well-kept secret.

But Mr. Dashwood rejected any but thrilling tales, and as
thrills could not be produced except by harrowing up the souls of
the readers, history and romance, land and sea, science and art,
police records and lunatic asylums, had to be ransacked for the
purpose. Jo soon found that her innocent experience had given her
but few glimpses of the tragic world which underlies society, so
regarding it in a business light, she set about supplying her
deficiencies with characteristic energy. Eager to find material for
stories, and bent on making them original in plot, if not masterly
in execution, she searched newspapers for accidents, incidents, and
crimes. She excited the suspicions of public librarians by asking
for works on poisons. She studied faces in the street, and
characters, good, bad, and indifferent, all about her. She delved
in the dust of ancient times for facts or fictions so old that they
were as good as new, and introduced herself to folly, sin, and
misery, as well as her limited opportunities allowed. She thought
she was prospering finely, but unconsciously she was beginning to
desecrate some of the womanliest attributes of a woman's character.
She was living in bad society, and imaginary though it was, its
influence affected her, for she was feeding heart and fancy on
dangerous and unsubstantial food, and was fast brushing the
innocent bloom from her nature by a premature acquaintance with the
darker side of life, which comes soon enough to all of us.

She was beginning to feel rather than see this, for much
describing of other people's passions and feelings set her to
studying and speculating about her own, a morbid amusement in which
healthy young minds do not voluntarily indulge. Wrongdoing always
brings its own punishment, and when Jo most needed hers, she got
it.

I don't know whether the study of Shakespeare helped her to read
character, or the natural instinct of a woman for what was honest,
brave, and strong, but while endowing her imaginary heroes with
every perfection under the sun, Jo was discovering a live hero, who
interested her in spite of many human imperfections. Mr. Bhaer, in
one of their conversations, had advised her to study simple, true,
and lovely characters, wherever she found them, as good training
for a writer. Jo took him at his word, for she coolly turned round
and studied himâ€”a proceeding which would have much surprised him,
had he known it, for the worthy Professor was very humble in his
own conceit.

Why everybody liked him was what puzzled Jo, at first. He was
neither rich nor great, young nor handsome, in no respect what is
called fascinating, imposing, or brilliant, and yet he was as
attractive as a genial fire, and people seemed to gather about him
as naturally as about a warm hearth. He was poor, yet always
appeared to be giving something away; a stranger, yet everyone was
his friend; no longer young, but as happy-hearted as a boy; plain
and peculiar, yet his face looked beautiful to many, and his
oddities were freely forgiven for his sake. Jo often watched him,
trying to discover the charm, and at last decided that it was
benevolence which worked the miracle. If he had any sorrow, 'it sat
with its head under its wing', and he turned only his sunny side to
the world. There were lines upon his forehead, but Time seemed to
have touched him gently, remembering how kind he was to others. The
pleasant curves about his mouth were the memorials of many friendly
words and cheery laughs, his eyes were never cold or hard, and his
big hand had a warm, strong grasp that was more expressive than
words.

