His very clothes seemed to partake of the hospitable nature of
the wearer. They looked as if they were at ease, and liked to make
him comfortable. His capacious waistcoat was suggestive of a large
heart underneath. His rusty coat had a social air, and the baggy
pockets plainly proved that little hands often went in empty and
came out full. His very boots were benevolent, and his collars
never stiff and raspy like other people's.

"That's it!" said Jo to herself, when she at length discovered
that genuine good will toward one's fellow men could beautify and
dignify even a stout German teacher, who shoveled in his dinner,
darned his own socks, and was burdened with the name of Bhaer.

Jo valued goodness highly, but she also possessed a most
feminine respect for intellect, and a little discovery which she
made about the Professor added much to her regard for him. He never
spoke of himself, and no one ever knew that in his native city he
had been a man much honored and esteemed for learning and
integrity, till a countryman came to see him. He never spoke of
himself, and in a conversation with Miss Norton divulged the
pleasing fact. From her Jo learned it, and liked it all the better
because Mr. Bhaer had never told it. She felt proud to know that he
was an honored Professor in Berlin, though only a poor
language-master in America, and his homely, hard-working life was
much beautified by the spice of romance which this discovery gave
it. Another and a better gift than intellect was shown her in a
most unexpected manner. Miss Norton had the entree into most
society, which Jo would have had no chance of seeing but for her.
The solitary woman felt an interest in the ambitious girl, and
kindly conferred many favors of this sort both on Jo and the
Professor. She took them with her one night to a select symposium,
held in honor of several celebrities.

Jo went prepared to bow down and adore the mighty ones whom she
had worshiped with youthful enthusiasm afar off. But her reverence
for genius received a severe shock that night, and it took her some
time to recover from the discovery that the great creatures were
only men and women after all. Imagine her dismay, on stealing a
glance of timid admiration at the poet whose lines suggested an
ethereal being fed on 'spirit, fire, and dew', to behold him
devouring his supper with an ardor which flushed his intellectual
countenance. Turning as from a fallen idol, she made other
discoveries which rapidly dispelled her romantic illusions. The
great novelist vibrated between two decanters with the regularity
of a pendulum; the famous divine flirted openly with one of the
Madame de Staels of the age, who looked daggers at another Corinne,
who was amiably satirizing her, after outmaneuvering her in efforts
to absorb the profound philosopher, who imbibed tea Johnsonianly
and appeared to slumber, the loquacity of the lady rendering speech
impossible. The scientific celebrities, forgetting their mollusks
and glacial periods, gossiped about art, while devoting themselves
to oysters and ices with characteristic energy; the young musician,
who was charming the city like a second Orpheus, talked horses; and
the specimen of the British nobility present happened to be the
most ordinary man of the party.

Before the evening was half over, Jo felt so completely
disillusioned, that she sat down in a corner to recover herself.
Mr. Bhaer soon joined her, looking rather out of his element, and
presently several of the philosophers, each mounted on his hobby,
came ambling up to hold an intellectual tournament in the recess.
The conversations were miles beyond Jo's comprehension, but she
enjoyed it, though Kant and Hegel were unknown gods, the Subjective
and Objective unintelligible terms, and the only thing 'evolved
from her inner consciousness' was a bad headache after it was all
over. It dawned upon her gradually that the world was being picked
to pieces, and put together on new and, according to the talkers,
on infinitely better principles than before, that religion was in a
fair way to be reasoned into nothingness, and intellect was to be
the only God. Jo knew nothing about philosophy or metaphysics of
any sort, but a curious excitement, half pleasurable, half painful,
came over her as she listened with a sense of being turned adrift
into time and space, like a young balloon out on a holiday.

She looked round to see how the Professor liked it, and found
him looking at her with the grimmest expression she had ever seen
him wear. He shook his head and beckoned her to come away, but she
was fascinated just then by the freedom of Speculative Philosophy,
and kept her seat, trying to find out what the wise gentlemen
intended to rely upon after they had annihilated all the old
beliefs.

Now, Mr. Bhaer was a diffident man and slow to offer his own
opinions, not because they were unsettled, but too sincere and
earnest to be lightly spoken. As he glanced from Jo to several
other young people, attracted by the brilliancy of the philosophic
pyrotechnics, he knit his brows and longed to speak, fearing that
some inflammable young soul would be led astray by the rockets, to
find when the display was over that they had only an empty stick or
a scorched hand.

He bore it as long as he could, but when he was appealed to for
an opinion, he blazed up with honest indignation and defended
religion with all the eloquence of truthâ€”an eloquence which made
his broken English musical and his plain face beautiful. He had a
hard fight, for the wise men argued well, but he didn't know when
he was beaten and stood to his colors like a man. Somehow, as he
talked, the world got right again to Jo. The old beliefs, that had
lasted so long, seemed better than the new. God was not a blind
force, and immortality was not a pretty fable, but a blessed fact.
She felt as if she had solid ground under her feet again, and when
Mr. Bhaer paused, outtalked but not one whit convinced, Jo wanted
to clap her hands and thank him.

She did neither, but she remembered the scene, and gave the
Professor her heartiest respect, for she knew it cost him an effort
to speak out then and there, because his conscience would not let
him be silent. She began to see that character is a better
possession than money, rank, intellect, or beauty, and to feel that
if greatness is what a wise man has defined it to be, 'truth,
reverence, and good will', then her friend Friedrich Bhaer was not
only good, but great.

This belief strengthened daily. She valued his esteem, she
coveted his respect, she wanted to be worthy of his friendship, and
just when the wish was sincerest, she came near to losing
everything. It all grew out of a cocked hat, for one evening the
Professor came in to give Jo her lesson with a paper soldier cap on
his head, which Tina had put there and he had forgotten to take
off.

"It's evident he doesn't look in his glass before coming down,"
thought Jo, with a smile, as he said "Goot efening," and sat
soberly down, quite unconscious of the ludicrous contrast between
his subject and his headgear, for he was going to read her the
Death of Wallenstein.
