
Jo wrote no more sensational stories, deciding that the money
did not pay for her share of the sensation, but going to the other
extreme, as is the way with people of her stamp, she took a course
of Mrs. Sherwood, Miss Edgeworth, and Hannah More, and then
produced a tale which might have been more properly called an essay
or a sermon, so intensely moral was it. She had her doubts about it
from the beginning, for her lively fancy and girlish romance felt
as ill at ease in the new style as she would have done masquerading
in the stiff and cumbrous costume of the last century. She sent
this didactic gem to several markets, but it found no purchaser,
and she was inclined to agree with Mr. Dashwood that morals didn't
sell.

Then she tried a child's story, which she could easily have
disposed of if she had not been mercenary enough to demand filthy
lucre for it. The only person who offered enough to make it worth
her while to try juvenile literature was a worthy gentleman who
felt it his mission to convert all the world to his particular
belief. But much as she liked to write for children, Jo could not
consent to depict all her naughty boys as being eaten by bears or
tossed by mad bulls because they did not go to a particular Sabbath
school, nor all the good infants who did go as rewarded by every
kind of bliss, from gilded gingerbread to escorts of angels when
they departed this life with psalms or sermons on their lisping
tongues. So nothing came of these trials, and Jo corked up her
inkstand, and said in a fit of very wholesome humilityâ€¦

"I don't know anything. I'll wait until I do before I try again,
and meantime, 'sweep mud in the street' if I can't do better,
that's honest, at least." Which decision proved that her second
tumble down the beanstalk had done her some good.

While these internal revolutions were going on, her external
life had been as busy and uneventful as usual, and if she sometimes
looked serious or a little sad no one observed it but Professor
Bhaer. He did it so quietly that Jo never knew he was watching to
see if she would accept and profit by his reproof, but she stood
the test, and he was satisfied, for though no words passed between
them, he knew that she had given up writing. Not only did he guess
it by the fact that the second finger of her right hand was no
longer inky, but she spent her evenings downstairs now, was met no
more among newspaper offices, and studied with a dogged patience,
which assured him that she was bent on occupying her mind with
something useful, if not pleasant.

He helped her in many ways, proving himself a true friend, and
Jo was happy, for while her pen lay idle, she was learning other
lessons besides German, and laying a foundation for the sensation
story of her own life.

It was a pleasant winter and a long one, for she did not leave
Mrs. Kirke till June. Everyone seemed sorry when the time came. The
children were inconsolable, and Mr. Bhaer's hair stuck straight up
all over his head, for he always rumpled it wildly when disturbed
in mind.

"Going home? Ah, you are happy that you haf a home to go in," he
said, when she told him, and sat silently pulling his beard in the
corner, while she held a little levee on that last evening.

She was going early, so she bade them all goodbye overnight, and
when his turn came, she said warmly, "Now, Sir, you won't forget to
come and see us, if you ever travel our way, will you? I'll never
forgive you if you do, for I want them all to know my friend."

"Do you? Shall I come?" he asked, looking down at her with an
eager expression which she did not see.

"Yes, come next month. Laurie graduates then, and you'd enjoy
commencement as something new."

