
"I know it, Meg, for I've tried it, and I seldom give advice
unless I've proved its practicability. When you and Jo were little,
I went on just as you are, feeling as if I didn't do my duty unless
I devoted myself wholly to you. Poor Father took to his books,
after I had refused all offers of help, and left me to try my
experiment alone. I struggled along as well as I could, but Jo was
too much for me. I nearly spoiled her by indulgence. You were
poorly, and I worried about you till I fell sick myself. Then
Father came to the rescue, quietly managed everything, and made
himself so helpful that I saw my mistake, and never have been able
to got on without him since. That is the secret of our home
happiness. He does not let business wean him from the little cares
and duties that affect us all, and I try not to let domestic
worries destroy my interest in his pursuits. Each do our part alone
in many things, but at home we work together, always."

"It is so, Mother, and my great wish is to be to my husband and
children what you have been to yours. Show me how, I'll do anything
you say."

"You always were my docile daughter. Well, dear, if I were you,
I'd let John have more to do with the management of Demi, for the
boy needs training, and it's none too soon to begin. Then I'd do
what I have often proposed, let Hannah come and help you. She is a
capital nurse, and you may trust the precious babies to her while
you do more housework. You need the exercise, Hannah would enjoy
the rest, and John would find his wife again. Go out more, keep
cheerful as well as busy, for you are the sunshine-maker of the
family, and if you get dismal there is no fair weather. Then I'd
try to take an interest in whatever John likesâ€”talk with him, let
him read to you, exchange ideas, and help each other in that way.
Don't shut yourself up in a bandbox because you are a woman, but
understand what is going on, and educate yourself to take your part
in the world's work, for it all affects you and yours."

"John is so sensible, I'm afraid he will think I'm stupid if I
ask questions about politics and things."

"I don't believe he would. Love covers a multitude of sins, and
of whom could you ask more freely than of him? Try it, and see if
he doesn't find your society far more agreeable than Mrs. Scott's
suppers."

"I will. Poor John! I'm afraid I have neglected him sadly, but I
thought I was right, and he never said anything."

"He tried not to be selfish, but he has felt rather forlorn, I
fancy. This is just the time, Meg, when young married people are
apt to grow apart, and the very time when they ought to be most
together, for the first tenderness soon wears off, unless care is
taken to preserve it. And no time is so beautiful and precious to
parents as the first years of the little lives given to them to
train. Don't let John be a stranger to the babies, for they will do
more to keep him safe and happy in this world of trial and
temptation than anything else, and through them you will learn to
know and love one another as you should. Now, dear, good-by. Think
over Mother's preachment, act upon it if it seems good, and God
bless you all."

Meg did think it over, found it good, and acted upon it, though
the first attempt was not made exactly as she planned to have it.
Of course the children tyrannized over her, and ruled the house as
soon as they found out that kicking and squalling brought them
whatever they wanted. Mamma was an abject slave to their caprices,
but Papa was not so easily subjugated, and occasionally afflicted
his tender spouse by an attempt at paternal discipline with his
obstreperous son. For Demi inherited a trifle of his sire's
firmness of character, we won't call it obstinacy, and when he made
up his little mind to have or to do anything, all the king's horses
and all the king's men could not change that pertinacious little
mind. Mamma thought the dear too young to be taught to conquer his
prejudices, but Papa believed that it never was too soon to learn
obedience. So Master Demi early discovered that when he undertook
to 'wrastle' with 'Parpar', he always got the worst of it, yet like
the Englishman, baby respected the man who conquered him, and loved
the father whose grave "No, no," was more impressive than all
Mamma's love pats.

A few days after the talk with her mother, Meg resolved to try a
social evening with John, so she ordered a nice supper, set the
parlor in order, dressed herself prettily, and put the children to
bed early, that nothing should interfere with her experiment. But
unfortunately Demi's most unconquerable prejudice was against going
to bed, and that night he decided to go on a rampage. So poor Meg
sang and rocked, told stories and tried every sleep-prevoking wile
she could devise, but all in vain, the big eyes wouldn't shut, and
long after Daisy had gone to byelow, like the chubby little bunch
of good nature she was, naughty Demi lay staring at the light, with
the most discouragingly wide-awake expression of countenance.

"Will Demi lie still like a good boy, while Mamma runs down and
gives poor Papa his tea?" asked Meg, as the hall door softly
closed, and the well-known step went tip-toeing into the dining
room.

