With praiseworthy discretion, the good lady said nothing, and
betrayed no sign of enlightenment, but cordially urged Laurie to
stay and begged Amy to enjoy his society, for it would do her more
good than so much solitude. Amy was a model of docility, and as her
aunt was a good deal occupied with Flo, she was left to entertain
her friend, and did it with more than her usual success.

At Nice, Laurie had lounged and Amy had scolded. At Vevay,
Laurie was never idle, but always walking, riding, boating, or
studying in the most energetic manner, while Amy admired everything
he did and followed his example as far and as fast as she could. He
said the change was owing to the climate, and she did not
contradict him, being glad of a like excuse for her own recovered
health and spirits.

The invigorating air did them both good, and much exercise
worked wholesome changes in minds as well as bodies. They seemed to
get clearer views of life and duty up there among the everlasting
hills. The fresh winds blew away desponding doubts, delusive
fancies, and moody mists. The warm spring sunshine brought out all
sorts of aspiring ideas, tender hopes, and happy thoughts. The lake
seemed to wash away the troubles of the past, and the grand old
mountains to look benignly down upon them saying, "Little children,
love one another."

In spite of the new sorrow, it was a very happy time, so happy
that Laurie could not bear to disturb it by a word. It took him a
little while to recover from his surprise at the cure of his first,
and as he had firmly believed, his last and only love. He consoled
himself for the seeming disloyalty by the thought that Jo's sister
was almost the same as Jo's self, and the conviction that it would
have been impossible to love any other woman but Amy so soon and so
well. His first wooing had been of the tempestuous order, and he
looked back upon it as if through a long vista of years with a
feeling of compassion blended with regret. He was not ashamed of
it, but put it away as one of the bitter-sweet experiences of his
life, for which he could be grateful when the pain was over. His
second wooing, he resolved, should be as calm and simple as
possible. There was no need of having a scene, hardly any need of
telling Amy that he loved her, she knew it without words and had
given him his answer long ago. It all came about so naturally that
no one could complain, and he knew that everybody would be pleased,
even Jo. But when our first little passion has been crushed, we are
apt to be wary and slow in making a second trial, so Laurie let the
days pass, enjoying every hour, and leaving to chance the utterance
of the word that would put an end to the first and sweetest part of
his new romance.

He had rather imagined that the denoument would take place in
the chateau garden by moonlight, and in the most graceful and
decorous manner, but it turned out exactly the reverse, for the
matter was settled on the lake at noonday in a few blunt words.
They had been floating about all the morning, from gloomy St.
Gingolf to sunny Montreux, with the Alps of Savoy on one side, Mont
St. Bernard and the Dent du Midi on the other, pretty Vevay in the
valley, and Lausanne upon the hill beyond, a cloudless blue sky
overhead, and the bluer lake below, dotted with the picturesque
boats that look like white-winged gulls.

They had been talking of Bonnivard, as they glided past Chillon,
and of Rousseau, as they looked up at Clarens, where he wrote his
Heloise. Neither had read it, but they knew it was a love story,
and each privately wondered if it was half as interesting as their
own. Amy had been dabbling her hand in the water during the little
pause that fell between them, and when she looked up, Laurie was
leaning on his oars with an expression in his eyes that made her
say hastily, merely for the sake of saying somethingâ€¦

"You must be tired. Rest a little, and let me row. It will do me
good, for since you came I have been altogether lazy and
luxurious."

"I'm not tired, but you may take an oar, if you like. There's
room enough, though I have to sit nearly in the middle, else the
boat won't trim," returned Laurie, as if he rather liked the
arrangement.

Feeling that she had not mended matters much, Amy took the
offered third of a seat, shook her hair over her face, and accepted
an oar. She rowed as well as she did many other things, and though
she used both hands, and Laurie but one, the oars kept time, and
the boat went smoothly through the water.

"How well we pull together, don't we?" said Amy, who objected to
silence just then.

"So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat. Will
you, Amy?" very tenderly.
