"I was wondering how you and Amy get on together."

"Like angels!"

"Yes, of course, but which rules?"

"I don't mind telling you that she does now, at least I let her
think so, it pleases her, you know. By-and-by we shall take turns,
for marriage, they say, halves one's rights and doubles one's
duties."

"You'll go on as you begin, and Amy will rule you all the days
of your life."

"Well, she does it so imperceptibly that I don't think I shall
mind much. She is the sort of woman who knows how to rule well. In
fact, I rather like it, for she winds one round her finger as
softly and prettily as a skein of silk, and makes you feel as if
she was doing you a favor all the while."

"That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and
enjoying it!" cried Jo, with uplifted hands.

It was good to see Laurie square his shoulders, and smile with
masculine scorn at that insinuation, as he replied, with his "high
and mighty" air, "Amy is too well-bred for that, and I am not the
sort of man to submit to it. My wife and I respect ourselves and
one another too much ever to tyrannize or quarrel."

Jo liked that, and thought the new dignity very becoming, but
the boy seemed changing very fast into the man, and regret mingled
with her pleasure.

"I am sure of that. Amy and you never did quarrel as we used to.
She is the sun and I the wind, in the fable, and the sun managed
the man best, you remember."

"She can blow him up as well as shine on him," laughed Laurie.
"such a lecture as I got at Nice! I give you my word it was a deal
worse than any of your scoldings, a regular rouser. I'll tell you
all about it sometime, she never will, because after telling me
that she despised and was ashamed of me, she lost her heart to the
despicable party and married the good-for-nothing."
