"No, I came to amuse you. Shall I read aloud?" and Jo looked
affectionately toward some inviting books near by.

"Thank you! I've read all those, and if you don't mind, I'd
rather talk," answered Laurie.

"Not a bit. I'll talk all day if you'll only set me going. Beth
says I never know when to stop."

"Is Beth the rosy one, who stays at home good deal and sometimes
goes out with a little basket?" asked Laurie with interest.

"Yes, that's Beth. She's my girl, and a regular good one she is,
too."

"The pretty one is Meg, and the curly-haired one is Amy, I
believe?"

"How did you find that out?"

Laurie colored up, but answered frankly, "Why, you see I often
hear you calling to one another, and when I'm alone up here, I
can't help looking over at your house, you always seem to be having
such good times. I beg your pardon for being so rude, but sometimes
you forget to put down the curtain at the window where the flowers
are. And when the lamps are lighted, it's like looking at a picture
to see the fire, and you all around the table with your mother. Her
face is right opposite, and it looks so sweet behind the flowers, I
can't help watching it. I haven't got any mother, you know." And
Laurie poked the fire to hide a little twitching of the lips that
he could not control.

The solitary, hungry look in his eyes went straight to Jo's warm
heart. She had been so simply taught that there was no nonsense in
her head, and at fifteen she was as innocent and frank as any
child. Laurie was sick and lonely, and feeling how rich she was in
home and happiness, she gladly tried to share it with him. Her face
was very friendly and her sharp voice unusually gentle as she
saidâ€¦

"We'll never draw that curtain any more, and I give you leave to
look as much as you like. I just wish, though, instead of peeping,
you'd come over and see us. Mother is so splendid, she'd do you
heaps of good, and Beth would sing to you if I begged her to, and
Amy would dance. Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny
stage properties, and we'd have jolly times. Wouldn't your grandpa
let you?"

"I think he would, if your mother asked him. He's very kind,
though he does not look so, and he lets me do what I like, pretty
much, only he's afraid I might be a bother to strangers," began
Laurie, brightening more and more.
