When the tea bell rang, Jo appeared, looking so grim and
unapproachable that it took all Amy's courage to say meeklyâ€¦

"Please forgive me, Jo. I'm very, very sorry."

"I never shall forgive you," was Jo's stern answer, and from
that moment she ignored Amy entirely.

No one spoke of the great trouble, not even Mrs. March, for all
had learned by experience that when Jo was in that mood words were
wasted, and the wisest course was to wait till some little
accident, or her own generous nature, softened Jo's resentment and
healed the breach. It was not a happy evening, for though they
sewed as usual, while their mother read aloud from Bremer, Scott,
or Edgeworth, something was wanting, and the sweet home peace was
disturbed. They felt this most when singing time came, for Beth
could only play, Jo stood dumb as a stone, and Amy broke down, so
Meg and Mother sang alone. But in spite of their efforts to be as
cheery as larks, the flutelike voices did not seem to chord as well
as usual, and all felt out of tune.

As Jo received her good-night kiss, Mrs. March whispered gently,
"My dear, don't let the sun go down upon your anger. Forgive each
other, help each other, and begin again tomorrow."

Jo wanted to lay her head down on that motherly bosom, and cry
her grief and anger all away, but tears were an unmanly weakness,
and she felt so deeply injured that she really couldn't quite
forgive yet. So she winked hard, shook her head, and said gruffly
because Amy was listening, "It was an abominable thing, and she
doesn't deserve to be forgiven."

With that she marched off to bed, and there was no merry or
confidential gossip that night.

Amy was much offended that her overtures of peace had been
repulsed, and began to wish she had not humbled herself, to feel
more injured than ever, and to plume herself on her superior virtue
in a way which was particularly exasperating. Jo still looked like
a thunder cloud, and nothing went well all day. It was bitter cold
in the morning, she dropped her precious turnover in the gutter,
Aunt March had an attack of the fidgets, Meg was sensitive, Beth
would look grieved and wistful when she got home, and Amy kept
making remarks about people who were always talking about being
good and yet wouldn't even try when other people set them a
virtuous example.

"Everybody is so hateful, I'll ask Laurie to go skating. He is
always kind and jolly, and will put me to rights, I know," said Jo
to herself, and off she went.

Amy heard the clash of skates, and looked out with an impatient
exclamation.

"There! She promised I should go next time, for this is the last
ice we shall have. But it's no use to ask such a crosspatch to take
me."
