
"And no great harm if it does," said Mr. Woodhouse. "The sooner
every party breaks up, the better."

"But you do not consider how it may appear to the Coles. Emma's
going away directly after tea might be giving offence. They are
good-natured people, and think little of their own claims; but
still they must feel that any body's hurrying away is no great
compliment; and Miss Woodhouse's doing it would be more thought of
than any other person's in the room. You would not wish to
disappoint and mortify the Coles, I am sure, sir; friendly, good
sort of people as ever lived, and who have been your neighbours
these ten years."

"No, upon no account in the world, Mr. Weston; I am much obliged
to you for reminding me. I should be extremely sorry to be giving
them any pain. I know what worthy people they are. Perry tells me
that Mr. Cole never touches malt liquor. You would not think it to
look at him, but he is bilious—Mr. Cole is very bilious. No, I
would not be the means of giving them any pain. My dear Emma, we
must consider this. I am sure, rather than run the risk of hurting
Mr. and Mrs. Cole, you would stay a little longer than you might
wish. You will not regard being tired. You will be perfectly safe,
you know, among your friends."

"Oh yes, papa. I have no fears at all for myself; and I should
have no scruples of staying as late as Mrs. Weston, but on your
account. I am only afraid of your sitting up for me. I am not
afraid of your not being exceedingly comfortable with Mrs. Goddard.
She loves piquet, you know; but when she is gone home, I am afraid
you will be sitting up by yourself, instead of going to bed at your
usual time—and the idea of that would entirely destroy my comfort.
You must promise me not to sit up."

He did, on the condition of some promises on her side: such as
that, if she came home cold, she would be sure to warm herself
thoroughly; if hungry, that she would take something to eat; that
her own maid should sit up for her; and that Serle and the butler
should see that every thing were safe in the house, as usual.




