
She played.

"What felicity it is to hear a tune again which has made one
happy!— If I mistake not that was danced at Weymouth."

She looked up at him for a moment, coloured deeply, and played
something else. He took some music from a chair near the
pianoforte, and turning to Emma, said,

"Here is something quite new to me. Do you know it?—Cramer.— And
here are a new set of Irish melodies. That, from such a quarter,
one might expect. This was all sent with the instrument. Very
thoughtful of Colonel Campbell, was not it?—He knew Miss Fairfax
could have no music here. I honour that part of the attention
particularly; it shews it to have been so thoroughly from the
heart. Nothing hastily done; nothing incomplete. True affection
only could have prompted it."

Emma wished he would be less pointed, yet could not help being
amused; and when on glancing her eye towards Jane Fairfax she
caught the remains of a smile, when she saw that with all the deep
blush of consciousness, there had been a smile of secret delight,
she had less scruple in the amusement, and much less compunction
with respect to her.—This amiable, upright, perfect Jane Fairfax
was apparently cherishing very reprehensible feelings.

He brought all the music to her, and they looked it over
together.— Emma took the opportunity of whispering,

"You speak too plain. She must understand you."

"I hope she does. I would have her understand me. I am not in
the least ashamed of my meaning."

"But really, I am half ashamed, and wish I had never taken up
the idea."

"I am very glad you did, and that you communicated it to me. I
have now a key to all her odd looks and ways. Leave shame to her.
If she does wrong, she ought to feel it."

