
"There is no denying it," he replied. "I agree with you exactly.
A crowd in a little room—Miss Woodhouse, you have the art of giving
pictures in a few words. Exquisite, quite exquisite!—Still,
however, having proceeded so far, one is unwilling to give the
matter up. It would be a disappointment to my father—and
altogether—I do not know that—I am rather of opinion that ten
couple might stand here very well."

Emma perceived that the nature of his gallantry was a little
self-willed, and that he would rather oppose than lose the pleasure
of dancing with her; but she took the compliment, and forgave the
rest. Had she intended ever to marry him, it might have been worth
while to pause and consider, and try to understand the value of his
preference, and the character of his temper; but for all the
purposes of their acquaintance, he was quite amiable enough.

Before the middle of the next day, he was at Hartfield; and he
entered the room with such an agreeable smile as certified the
continuance of the scheme. It soon appeared that he came to
announce an improvement.

"Well, Miss Woodhouse," he almost immediately began, "your
inclination for dancing has not been quite frightened away, I hope,
by the terrors of my father's little rooms. I bring a new proposal
on the subject:—a thought of my father's, which waits only your
approbation to be acted upon. May I hope for the honour of your
hand for the two first dances of this little projected ball, to be
given, not at Randalls, but at the Crown Inn?"

"The Crown!"

"Yes; if you and Mr. Woodhouse see no objection, and I trust you
cannot, my father hopes his friends will be so kind as to visit him
there. Better accommodations, he can promise them, and not a less
grateful welcome than at Randalls. It is his own idea. Mrs. Weston
sees no objection to it, provided you are satisfied. This is what
we all feel. Oh! you were perfectly right! Ten couple, in either of
the Randalls rooms, would have been insufferable!—Dreadful!—I felt
how right you were the whole time, but was too anxious for securing
any thing to like to yield. Is not it a good exchange?—You consent—
I hope you consent?"

"It appears to me a plan that nobody can object to, if Mr. and
Mrs. Weston do not. I think it admirable; and, as far as I can
answer for myself, shall be most happy—It seems the only
improvement that could be. Papa, do you not think it an excellent
improvement?"

She was obliged to repeat and explain it, before it was fully
comprehended; and then, being quite new, farther representations
were necessary to make it acceptable.

"No; he thought it very far from an improvement—a very bad plan—
much worse than the other. A room at an inn was always damp and
dangerous; never properly aired, or fit to be inhabited. If they
must dance, they had better dance at Randalls. He had never been in
the room at the Crown in his life—did not know the people who kept
it by sight.—Oh! no—a very bad plan. They would catch worse colds
at the Crown than anywhere."

"I was going to observe, sir," said Frank Churchill, "that one
of the great recommendations of this change would be the very
little danger of any body's catching cold— so much less danger at
the Crown than at Randalls! Mr. Perry might have reason to regret
the alteration, but nobody else could."

