
"I must not hope to be ever situated as you are, in the midst of
every dearest connexion, and therefore I cannot expect that simply
growing older should make me indifferent about letters."

"Indifferent! Oh! no—I never conceived you could become
indifferent. Letters are no matter of indifference; they are
generally a very positive curse."

"You are speaking of letters of business; mine are letters of
friendship."

"I have often thought them the worst of the two," replied he
coolly. "Business, you know, may bring money, but friendship hardly
ever does."

"Ah! you are not serious now. I know Mr. John Knightley too
well— I am very sure he understands the value of friendship as well
as any body. I can easily believe that letters are very little to
you, much less than to me, but it is not your being ten years older
than myself which makes the difference, it is not age, but
situation. You have every body dearest to you always at hand, I,
probably, never shall again; and therefore till I have outlived all
my affections, a post-office, I think, must always have power to
draw me out, in worse weather than to-day."

"When I talked of your being altered by time, by the progress of
years," said John Knightley, "I meant to imply the change of
situation which time usually brings. I consider one as including
the other. Time will generally lessen the interest of every
attachment not within the daily circle—but that is not the change I
had in view for you. As an old friend, you will allow me to hope,
Miss Fairfax, that ten years hence you may have as many
concentrated objects as I have."

It was kindly said, and very far from giving offence. A pleasant
"thank you" seemed meant to laugh it off, but a blush, a quivering
lip, a tear in the eye, shewed that it was felt beyond a laugh. Her
attention was now claimed by Mr. Woodhouse, who being, according to
his custom on such occasions, making the circle of his guests, and
paying his particular compliments to the ladies, was ending with
her—and with all his mildest urbanity, said,

"I am very sorry to hear, Miss Fairfax, of your being out this
morning in the rain. Young ladies should take care of themselves.—
Young ladies are delicate plants. They should take care of their
health and their complexion. My dear, did you change your
stockings?"

"Yes, sir, I did indeed; and I am very much obliged by your kind
solicitude about me."

"My dear Miss Fairfax, young ladies are very sure to be cared
for.— I hope your good grand-mama and aunt are well. They are some
of my very old friends. I wish my health allowed me to be a better
neighbour. You do us a great deal of honour to-day, I am sure. My
daughter and I are both highly sensible of your goodness, and have
the greatest satisfaction in seeing you at Hartfield."

