


Chapter

4

&#160;


A very few days had passed after this adventure, when Harriet
came one morning to Emma with a small parcel in her hand, and after
sitting down and hesitating, thus began:

"Miss Woodhouse—if you are at leisure—I have something that I
should like to tell you—a sort of confession to make—and then, you
know, it will be over."

Emma was a good deal surprized; but begged her to speak. There
was a seriousness in Harriet's manner which prepared her, quite as
much as her words, for something more than ordinary.

"It is my duty, and I am sure it is my wish," she continued, "to
have no reserves with you on this subject. As I am happily quite an
altered creature in one respect, it is very fit that you should
have the satisfaction of knowing it. I do not want to say more than
is necessary—I am too much ashamed of having given way as I have
done, and I dare say you understand me."

"Yes," said Emma, "I hope I do."

"How I could so long a time be fancying myself!&#160;… " cried
Harriet, warmly. "It seems like madness! I can see nothing at all
extraordinary in him now.—I do not care whether I meet him or
not—except that of the two I had rather not see him— and indeed I
would go any distance round to avoid him—but I do not envy his wife
in the least; I neither admire her nor envy her, as I have done:
she is very charming, I dare say, and all that, but I think her
very ill-tempered and disagreeable—I shall never forget her look
the other night!—However, I assure you, Miss Woodhouse, I wish her
no evil.—No, let them be ever so happy together, it will not give
me another moment's pang: and to convince you that I have been
speaking truth, I am now going to destroy—what I ought to have
destroyed long ago—what I ought never to have kept— I know that
very well (blushing as she spoke).—However, now I will destroy it
all—and it is my particular wish to do it in your presence, that
you may see how rational I am grown. Cannot you guess what this
parcel holds?" said she, with a conscious look.

