She spoke with great agitation; and Emma very feelingly replied,
"That can be no reason for your being exposed to danger now. I must
order the carriage. The heat even would be danger.—You are fatigued
already."

"I am,"—she answered—"I am fatigued; but it is not the sort of
fatigue—quick walking will refresh me.—Miss Woodhouse, we all know
at times what it is to be wearied in spirits. Mine, I confess, are
exhausted. The greatest kindness you can shew me, will be to let me
have my own way, and only say that I am gone when it is
necessary."

Emma had not another word to oppose. She saw it all; and
entering into her feelings, promoted her quitting the house
immediately, and watched her safely off with the zeal of a friend.
Her parting look was grateful—and her parting words, "Oh! Miss
Woodhouse, the comfort of being sometimes alone!"—seemed to burst
from an overcharged heart, and to describe somewhat of the
continual endurance to be practised by her, even towards some of
those who loved her best.

"Such a home, indeed! such an aunt!" said Emma, as she turned
back into the hall again. "I do pity you. And the more sensibility
you betray of their just horrors, the more I shall like you."

Jane had not been gone a quarter of an hour, and they had only
accomplished some views of St. Mark's Place, Venice, when Frank
Churchill entered the room. Emma had not been thinking of him, she
had forgotten to think of him—but she was very glad to see him.
Mrs. Weston would be at ease. The black mare was blameless; they
were right who had named Mrs. Churchill as the cause. He had been
detained by a temporary increase of illness in her; a nervous
seizure, which had lasted some hours—and he had quite given up
every thought of coming, till very late;—and had he known how hot a
ride he should have, and how late, with all his hurry, he must be,
he believed he should not have come at all. The heat was excessive;
he had never suffered any thing like it—almost wished he had staid
at home—nothing killed him like heat—he could bear any degree of
cold, etc., but heat was intolerable—and he sat down, at the
greatest possible distance from the slight remains of Mr.
Woodhouse's fire, looking very deplorable.

"You will soon be cooler, if you sit still," said Emma.

"As soon as I am cooler I shall go back again. I could very ill
be spared—but such a point had been made of my coming! You will all
be going soon I suppose; the whole party breaking up. I met one as
I came—Madness in such weather!—absolute madness!"

Emma listened, and looked, and soon perceived that Frank
Churchill's state might be best defined by the expressive phrase of
being out of humour. Some people were always cross when they were
hot. Such might be his constitution; and as she knew that eating
and drinking were often the cure of such incidental complaints, she
recommended his taking some refreshment; he would find abundance of
every thing in the dining-room—and she humanely pointed out the
door.

"No—he should not eat. He was not hungry; it would only make him
hotter." In two minutes, however, he relented in his own favour;
and muttering something about spruce-beer, walked off. Emma
returned all her attention to her father, saying in secret—

"I am glad I have done being in love with him. I should not like
a man who is so soon discomposed by a hot morning. Harriet's sweet
easy temper will not mind it."

He was gone long enough to have had a very comfortable meal, and
came back all the better—grown quite cool—and, with good manners,
like himself—able to draw a chair close to them, take an interest
in their employment; and regret, in a reasonable way, that he
should be so late. He was not in his best spirits, but seemed
trying to improve them; and, at last, made himself talk nonsense
very agreeably. They were looking over views in Swisserland.
