
"Oh!" cried Emma, "I know there is not a better creature in the
world: but you must allow, that what is good and what is ridiculous
are most unfortunately blended in her."

"They are blended," said he, "I acknowledge; and, were she
prosperous, I could allow much for the occasional prevalence of the
ridiculous over the good. Were she a woman of fortune, I would
leave every harmless absurdity to take its chance, I would not
quarrel with you for any liberties of manner. Were she your equal
in situation— but, Emma, consider how far this is from being the
case. She is poor; she has sunk from the comforts she was born to;
and, if she live to old age, must probably sink more. Her situation
should secure your compassion. It was badly done, indeed! You, whom
she had known from an infant, whom she had seen grow up from a
period when her notice was an honour, to have you now, in
thoughtless spirits, and the pride of the moment, laugh at her,
humble her—and before her niece, too—and before others, many of
whom (certainly some,) would be entirely guided by your treatment
of her.—This is not pleasant to you, Emma—and it is very far from
pleasant to me; but I must, I will,—I will tell you truths while I
can; satisfied with proving myself your friend by very faithful
counsel, and trusting that you will some time or other do me
greater justice than you can do now."

While they talked, they were advancing towards the carriage; it
was ready; and, before she could speak again, he had handed her in.
He had misinterpreted the feelings which had kept her face averted,
and her tongue motionless. They were combined only of anger against
herself, mortification, and deep concern. She had not been able to
speak; and, on entering the carriage, sunk back for a moment
overcome—then reproaching herself for having taken no leave, making
no acknowledgment, parting in apparent sullenness, she looked out
with voice and hand eager to shew a difference; but it was just too
late. He had turned away, and the horses were in motion. She
continued to look back, but in vain; and soon, with what appeared
unusual speed, they were half way down the hill, and every thing
left far behind. She was vexed beyond what could have been
expressed—almost beyond what she could conceal. Never had she felt
so agitated, mortified, grieved, at any circumstance in her life.
She was most forcibly struck. The truth of this representation
there was no denying. She felt it at her heart. How could she have
been so brutal, so cruel to Miss Bates! How could she have exposed
herself to such ill opinion in any one she valued! And how suffer
him to leave her without saying one word of gratitude, of
concurrence, of common kindness!

Time did not compose her. As she reflected more, she seemed but
to feel it more. She never had been so depressed. Happily it was
not necessary to speak. There was only Harriet, who seemed not in
spirits herself, fagged, and very willing to be silent; and Emma
felt the tears running down her cheeks almost all the way home,
without being at any trouble to check them, extraordinary as they
were.




