


Chapter

8

&#160;


The wretchedness of a scheme to Box Hill was in Emma's thoughts
all the evening. How it might be considered by the rest of the
party, she could not tell. They, in their different homes, and
their different ways, might be looking back on it with pleasure;
but in her view it was a morning more completely misspent, more
totally bare of rational satisfaction at the time, and more to be
abhorred in recollection, than any she had ever passed. A whole
evening of back-gammon with her father, was felicity to it. There,
indeed, lay real pleasure, for there she was giving up the sweetest
hours of the twenty-four to his comfort; and feeling that,
unmerited as might be the degree of his fond affection and
confiding esteem, she could not, in her general conduct, be open to
any severe reproach. As a daughter, she hoped she was not without a
heart. She hoped no one could have said to her, "How could you be
so unfeeling to your father?— I must, I will tell you truths while
I can." Miss Bates should never again—no, never! If attention, in
future, could do away the past, she might hope to be forgiven. She
had been often remiss, her conscience told her so; remiss, perhaps,
more in thought than fact; scornful, ungracious. But it should be
so no more. In the warmth of true contrition, she would call upon
her the very next morning, and it should be the beginning, on her
side, of a regular, equal, kindly intercourse.

She was just as determined when the morrow came, and went early,
that nothing might prevent her. It was not unlikely, she thought,
that she might see Mr. Knightley in her way; or, perhaps, he might
come in while she were paying her visit. She had no objection. She
would not be ashamed of the appearance of the penitence, so justly
and truly hers. Her eyes were towards Donwell as she walked, but
she saw him not.

"The ladies were all at home." She had never rejoiced at the
sound before, nor ever before entered the passage, nor walked up
the stairs, with any wish of giving pleasure, but in conferring
obligation, or of deriving it, except in subsequent ridicule.

There was a bustle on her approach; a good deal of moving and
talking. She heard Miss Bates's voice, something was to be done in
a hurry; the maid looked frightened and awkward; hoped she would be
pleased to wait a moment, and then ushered her in too soon. The
aunt and niece seemed both escaping into the adjoining room. Jane
she had a distinct glimpse of, looking extremely ill; and, before
the door had shut them out, she heard Miss Bates saying, "Well, my
dear, I shall say you are laid down upon the bed, and I am sure you
are ill enough."

Poor old Mrs. Bates, civil and humble as usual, looked as if she
did not quite understand what was going on.

"I am afraid Jane is not very well," said she, "but I do not
know; they tell me she is well. I dare say my daughter will be here
presently, Miss Woodhouse. I hope you find a chair. I wish Hetty
had not gone. I am very little able—Have you a chair, ma'am? Do you
sit where you like? I am sure she will be here presently."

