
"None; not one. He positively said that it had been known to no
being in the world but their two selves."

"Well," said Emma, "I suppose we shall gradually grow reconciled
to the idea, and I wish them very happy. But I shall always think
it a very abominable sort of proceeding. What has it been but a
system of hypocrisy and deceit,—espionage, and treachery?— To come
among us with professions of openness and simplicity; and such a
league in secret to judge us all!—Here have we been, the whole
winter and spring, completely duped, fancying ourselves all on an
equal footing of truth and honour, with two people in the midst of
us who may have been carrying round, comparing and sitting in
judgment on sentiments and words that were never meant for both to
hear.—They must take the consequence, if they have heard each other
spoken of in a way not perfectly agreeable!"

"I am quite easy on that head," replied Mrs. Weston. "I am very
sure that I never said any thing of either to the other, which both
might not have heard."

"You are in luck.—Your only blunder was confined to my ear, when
you imagined a certain friend of ours in love with the lady."

"True. But as I have always had a thoroughly good opinion of
Miss Fairfax, I never could, under any blunder, have spoken ill of
her; and as to speaking ill of him, there I must have been
safe."

At this moment Mr. Weston appeared at a little distance from the
window, evidently on the watch. His wife gave him a look which
invited him in; and, while he was coming round, added, "Now,
dearest Emma, let me intreat you to say and look every thing that
may set his heart at ease, and incline him to be satisfied with the
match. Let us make the best of it—and, indeed, almost every thing
may be fairly said in her favour. It is not a connexion to gratify;
but if Mr. Churchill does not feel that, why should we? and it may
be a very fortunate circumstance for him, for Frank, I mean, that
he should have attached himself to a girl of such steadiness of
character and good judgment as I have always given her credit for—
and still am disposed to give her credit for, in spite of this one
great deviation from the strict rule of right. And how much may be
said in her situation for even that error!"

"Much, indeed!" cried Emma feelingly. "If a woman can ever be
excused for thinking only of herself, it is in a situation like
Jane Fairfax's.—Of such, one may almost say, that `the world is not
their's, nor the world's law.'"

She met Mr. Weston on his entrance, with a smiling countenance,
exclaiming,

"A very pretty trick you have been playing me, upon my word!
This was a device, I suppose, to sport with my curiosity, and
exercise my talent of guessing. But you really frightened me. I
thought you had lost half your property, at least. And here,
instead of its being a matter of condolence, it turns out to be one
of congratulation.—I congratulate you, Mr. Weston, with all my
heart, on the prospect of having one of the most lovely and
accomplished young women in England for your daughter."

A glance or two between him and his wife, convinced him that all
was as right as this speech proclaimed; and its happy effect on his
spirits was immediate. His air and voice recovered their usual
briskness: he shook her heartily and gratefully by the hand, and
entered on the subject in a manner to prove, that he now only
wanted time and persuasion to think the engagement no very bad
thing. His companions suggested only what could palliate
imprudence, or smooth objections; and by the time they had talked
it all over together, and he had talked it all over again with
Emma, in their walk back to Hartfield, he was become perfectly
reconciled, and not far from thinking it the very best thing that
Frank could possibly have done.

