The time was coming when the news must spread farther, and other
persons' reception of it tried. As soon as Mrs. Weston was
sufficiently recovered to admit Mr. Woodhouse's visits, Emma having
it in view that her gentle reasonings should be employed in the
cause, resolved first to announce it at home, and then at
Randalls.— But how to break it to her father at last!—She had bound
herself to do it, in such an hour of Mr. Knightley's absence, or
when it came to the point her heart would have failed her, and she
must have put it off; but Mr. Knightley was to come at such a time,
and follow up the beginning she was to make.—She was forced to
speak, and to speak cheerfully too. She must not make it a more
decided subject of misery to him, by a melancholy tone herself. She
must not appear to think it a misfortune.—With all the spirits she
could command, she prepared him first for something strange, and
then, in a few words, said, that if his consent and approbation
could be obtained—which, she trusted, would be attended with no
difficulty, since it was a plan to promote the happiness of all—
she and Mr. Knightley meant to marry; by which means Hartfield
would receive the constant addition of that person's company whom
she knew he loved, next to his daughters and Mrs. Weston, best in
the world.

Poor man!—it was at first a considerable shock to him, and he
tried earnestly to dissuade her from it. She was reminded, more
than once, of having always said she would never marry, and assured
that it would be a great deal better for her to remain single; and
told of poor Isabella, and poor Miss Taylor.—But it would not do.
Emma hung about him affectionately, and smiled, and said it must be
so; and that he must not class her with Isabella and Mrs. Weston,
whose marriages taking them from Hartfield, had, indeed, made a
melancholy change: but she was not going from Hartfield; she should
be always there; she was introducing no change in their numbers or
their comforts but for the better; and she was very sure that he
would be a great deal the happier for having Mr. Knightley always
at hand, when he were once got used to the idea.—Did he not love
Mr. Knightley very much?— He would not deny that he did, she was
sure.—Whom did he ever want to consult on business but Mr.
Knightley?—Who was so useful to him, who so ready to write his
letters, who so glad to assist him?— Who so cheerful, so attentive,
so attached to him?—Would not he like to have him always on the
spot?—Yes. That was all very true. Mr. Knightley could not be there
too often; he should be glad to see him every day;—but they did see
him every day as it was.—Why could not they go on as they had
done?

Mr. Woodhouse could not be soon reconciled; but the worst was
overcome, the idea was given; time and continual repetition must do
the rest.— To Emma's entreaties and assurances succeeded Mr.
Knightley's, whose fond praise of her gave the subject even a kind
of welcome; and he was soon used to be talked to by each, on every
fair occasion.— They had all the assistance which Isabella could
give, by letters of the strongest approbation; and Mrs. Weston was
ready, on the first meeting, to consider the subject in the most
serviceable light—first, as a settled, and, secondly, as a good
one— well aware of the nearly equal importance of the two
recommendations to Mr. Woodhouse's mind.—It was agreed upon, as
what was to be; and every body by whom he was used to be guided
assuring him that it would be for his happiness; and having some
feelings himself which almost admitted it, he began to think that
some time or other— in another year or two, perhaps—it might not be
so very bad if the marriage did take place.

Mrs. Weston was acting no part, feigning no feelings in all that
she said to him in favour of the event.—She had been extremely
surprized, never more so, than when Emma first opened the affair to
her; but she saw in it only increase of happiness to all, and had
no scruple in urging him to the utmost.—She had such a regard for
Mr. Knightley, as to think he deserved even her dearest Emma; and
it was in every respect so proper, suitable, and unexceptionable a
connexion, and in one respect, one point of the highest importance,
so peculiarly eligible, so singularly fortunate, that now it seemed
as if Emma could not safely have attached herself to any other
creature, and that she had herself been the stupidest of beings in
not having thought of it, and wished it long ago.—How very few of
those men in a rank of life to address Emma would have renounced
their own home for Hartfield! And who but Mr. Knightley could know
and bear with Mr. Woodhouse, so as to make such an arrangement
desirable!— The difficulty of disposing of poor Mr. Woodhouse had
been always felt in her husband's plans and her own, for a marriage
between Frank and Emma. How to settle the claims of Enscombe and
Hartfield had been a continual impediment—less acknowledged by Mr.
Weston than by herself—but even he had never been able to finish
the subject better than by saying—"Those matters will take care of
themselves; the young people will find a way." But here there was
nothing to be shifted off in a wild speculation on the future. It
was all right, all open, all equal. No sacrifice on any side worth
the name. It was a union of the highest promise of felicity in
itself, and without one real, rational difficulty to oppose or
delay it.

Mrs. Weston, with her baby on her knee, indulging in such
reflections as these, was one of the happiest women in the world.
If any thing could increase her delight, it was perceiving that the
baby would soon have outgrown its first set of caps.

The news was universally a surprize wherever it spread; and Mr.
Weston had his five minutes share of it; but five minutes were
enough to familiarise the idea to his quickness of mind.— He saw
the advantages of the match, and rejoiced in them with all the
constancy of his wife; but the wonder of it was very soon nothing;
and by the end of an hour he was not far from believing that he had
always foreseen it.

"It is to be a secret, I conclude," said he. "These matters are
always a secret, till it is found out that every body knows them.
Only let me be told when I may speak out.—I wonder whether Jane has
any suspicion."

He went to Highbury the next morning, and satisfied himself on
that point. He told her the news. Was not she like a daughter, his
eldest daughter?—he must tell her; and Miss Bates being present, it
passed, of course, to Mrs. Cole, Mrs. Perry, and Mrs. Elton,
immediately afterwards. It was no more than the principals were
prepared for; they had calculated from the time of its being known
at Randalls, how soon it would be over Highbury; and were thinking
of themselves, as the evening wonder in many a family circle, with
great sagacity.

In general, it was a very well approved match. Some might think
him, and others might think her, the most in luck. One set might
recommend their all removing to Donwell, and leaving Hartfield for
the John Knightleys; and another might predict disagreements among
their servants; but yet, upon the whole, there was no serious
objection raised, except in one habitation, the Vicarage.—There,
the surprize was not softened by any satisfaction. Mr. Elton cared
little about it, compared with his wife; he only hoped "the young
lady's pride would now be contented;" and supposed "she had always
meant to catch Knightley if she could;" and, on the point of living
at Hartfield, could daringly exclaim, "Rather he than I!"— But Mrs.
Elton was very much discomposed indeed.—"Poor Knightley! poor
fellow!—sad business for him.—She was extremely concerned; for,
though very eccentric, he had a thousand good qualities.— How could
he be so taken in?—Did not think him at all in love— not in the
least.—Poor Knightley!—There would be an end of all pleasant
intercourse with him.—How happy he had been to come and dine with
them whenever they asked him! But that would be all over now.— Poor
fellow!—No more exploring parties to Donwell made for her. Oh! no;
there would be a Mrs. Knightley to throw cold water on every
thing.—Extremely disagreeable! But she was not at all sorry that
she had abused the housekeeper the other day.—Shocking plan, living
together. It would never do. She knew a family near Maple Grove who
had tried it, and been obliged to separate before the end of the
first quarter.




