
"I am sorry to hear you say so, sir; but I assure you, excepting
those little nervous head-aches and palpitations which I am never
entirely free from anywhere, I am quite well myself; and if the
children were rather pale before they went to bed, it was only
because they were a little more tired than usual, from their
journey and the happiness of coming. I hope you will think better
of their looks to-morrow; for I assure you Mr. Wingfield told me,
that he did not believe he had ever sent us off altogether, in such
good case. I trust, at least, that you do not think Mr. Knightley
looking ill," turning her eyes with affectionate anxiety towards
her husband.

"Middling, my dear; I cannot compliment you. I think Mr. John
Knightley very far from looking well."

"What is the matter, sir?—Did you speak to me?" cried Mr. John
Knightley, hearing his own name.

"I am sorry to find, my love, that my father does not think you
looking well—but I hope it is only from being a little fatigued. I
could have wished, however, as you know, that you had seen Mr.
Wingfield before you left home."

"My dear Isabella,"—exclaimed he hastily—"pray do not concern
yourself about my looks. Be satisfied with doctoring and coddling
yourself and the children, and let me look as I chuse."

"I did not thoroughly understand what you were telling your
brother," cried Emma, "about your friend Mr. Graham's intending to
have a bailiff from Scotland, to look after his new estate. What
will it answer? Will not the old prejudice be too strong?"

And she talked in this way so long and successfully that, when
forced to give her attention again to her father and sister, she
had nothing worse to hear than Isabella's kind inquiry after Jane
Fairfax; and Jane Fairfax, though no great favourite with her in
general, she was at that moment very happy to assist in
praising.

"That sweet, amiable Jane Fairfax!" said Mrs. John Knightley.—
"It is so long since I have seen her, except now and then for a
moment accidentally in town! What happiness it must be to her good
old grandmother and excellent aunt, when she comes to visit them! I
always regret excessively on dear Emma's account that she cannot be
more at Highbury; but now their daughter is married, I suppose
Colonel and Mrs. Campbell will not be able to part with her at all.
She would be such a delightful companion for Emma."

Mr. Woodhouse agreed to it all, but added,

"Our little friend Harriet Smith, however, is just such another
pretty kind of young person. You will like Harriet. Emma could not
have a better companion than Harriet."

