
"Your father will not be easy; why do not you go?"

"I am ready, if the others are."

"Shall I ring the bell?"

"Yes, do."

And the bell was rung, and the carriages spoken for. A few
minutes more, and Emma hoped to see one troublesome companion
deposited in his own house, to get sober and cool, and the other
recover his temper and happiness when this visit of hardship were
over.

The carriage came: and Mr. Woodhouse, always the first object on
such occasions, was carefully attended to his own by Mr. Knightley
and Mr. Weston; but not all that either could say could prevent
some renewal of alarm at the sight of the snow which had actually
fallen, and the discovery of a much darker night than he had been
prepared for. "He was afraid they should have a very bad drive. He
was afraid poor Isabella would not like it. And there would be poor
Emma in the carriage behind. He did not know what they had best do.
They must keep as much together as they could;" and James was
talked to, and given a charge to go very slow and wait for the
other carriage.

Isabella stept in after her father; John Knightley, forgetting
that he did not belong to their party, stept in after his wife very
naturally; so that Emma found, on being escorted and followed into
the second carriage by Mr. Elton, that the door was to be lawfully
shut on them, and that they were to have a tete-a-tete drive. It
would not have been the awkwardness of a moment, it would have been
rather a pleasure, previous to the suspicions of this very day; she
could have talked to him of Harriet, and the three-quarters of a
mile would have seemed but one. But now, she would rather it had
not happened. She believed he had been drinking too much of Mr.
Weston's good wine, and felt sure that he would want to be talking
nonsense.

To restrain him as much as might be, by her own manners, she was
immediately preparing to speak with exquisite calmness and gravity
of the weather and the night; but scarcely had she begun, scarcely
had they passed the sweep-gate and joined the other carriage, than
she found her subject cut up—her hand seized—her attention
demanded, and Mr. Elton actually making violent love to her:
availing himself of the precious opportunity, declaring sentiments
which must be already well known, hoping—fearing—adoring—ready to
die if she refused him; but flattering himself that his ardent
attachment and unequalled love and unexampled passion could not
fail of having some effect, and in short, very much resolved on
being seriously accepted as soon as possible. It really was so.
Without scruple—without apology— without much apparent diffidence,
Mr. Elton, the lover of Harriet, was professing himself her lover.
She tried to stop him; but vainly; he would go on, and say it all.
Angry as she was, the thought of the moment made her resolve to
restrain herself when she did speak. She felt that half this folly
must be drunkenness, and therefore could hope that it might belong
only to the passing hour. Accordingly, with a mixture of the
serious and the playful, which she hoped would best suit his half
and half state, she replied,

"I am very much astonished, Mr. Elton. This to me! you forget
yourself— you take me for my friend—any message to Miss Smith I
shall be happy to deliver; but no more of this to me, if you
please."

"Miss Smith!—message to Miss Smith!—What could she possibly
mean!"— And he repeated her words with such assurance of accent,
such boastful pretence of amazement, that she could not help
replying with quickness,

