


Chapter

18

&#160;


Mr. Frank Churchill did not come. When the time proposed drew
near, Mrs. Weston's fears were justified in the arrival of a letter
of excuse. For the present, he could not be spared, to his "very
great mortification and regret; but still he looked forward with
the hope of coming to Randalls at no distant period."

Mrs. Weston was exceedingly disappointedâ€”much more disappointed,
in fact, than her husband, though her dependence on seeing the
young man had been so much more sober: but a sanguine temper,
though for ever expecting more good than occurs, does not always
pay for its hopes by any proportionate depression. It soon flies
over the present failure, and begins to hope again. For half an
hour Mr. Weston was surprized and sorry; but then he began to
perceive that Frank's coming two or three months later would be a
much better plan; better time of year; better weather; and that he
would be able, without any doubt, to stay considerably longer with
them than if he had come sooner.

These feelings rapidly restored his comfort, while Mrs. Weston,
of a more apprehensive disposition, foresaw nothing but a
repetition of excuses and delays; and after all her concern for
what her husband was to suffer, suffered a great deal more
herself.

Emma was not at this time in a state of spirits to care really
about Mr. Frank Churchill's not coming, except as a disappointment
at Randalls. The acquaintance at present had no charm for her. She
wanted, rather, to be quiet, and out of temptation; but still, as
it was desirable that she should appear, in general, like her usual
self, she took care to express as much interest in the
circumstance, and enter as warmly into Mr. and Mrs. Weston's
disappointment, as might naturally belong to their friendship.

She was the first to announce it to Mr. Knightley; and exclaimed
quite as much as was necessary, (or, being acting a part, perhaps
rather more,) at the conduct of the Churchills, in keeping him
away. She then proceeded to say a good deal more than she felt, of
the advantage of such an addition to their confined society in
Surry; the pleasure of looking at somebody new; the gala-day to
Highbury entire, which the sight of him would have made; and ending
with reflections on the Churchills again, found herself directly
involved in a disagreement with Mr. Knightley; and, to her great
amusement, perceived that she was taking the other side of the
question from her real opinion, and making use of Mrs. Weston's
arguments against herself.

"The Churchills are very likely in fault," said Mr. Knightley,
coolly; "but I dare say he might come if he would."

