
"And a staircase to climb up to them!" added Neb.

"You are laughing," cried the sailor, "and why? What is there
impossible in what I propose? Haven't we got pickaxes and spades?
Won't Captain Harding be able to make powder to blow up the mine?
Isn't it true, captain, that you will make powder the very day we
want it?"

Cyrus Harding listened to the enthusiastic Pencroft developing
his fanciful projects. To attack this mass of granite, even by a
mine, was Herculean work, and it was really vexing that nature
could not help them at their need. But the engineer did not reply
to the sailor except by proposing to examine the cliff more
attentively, from the mouth of the river to the angle which
terminated it on the north.

They went out, therefore, and the exploration was made with
extreme care, over an extent of nearly two miles. But in no place
in the bare, straight cliff, could any cavity be found. The nests
of the rock pigeons which fluttered at its summit were only, in
reality, holes bored at the very top, and on the irregular edge of
the granite.

It was a provoking circumstance, and as to attacking this cliff,
either with pickaxe or with powder, so as to effect a sufficient
excavation, it was not to be thought of. It so happened that, on
all this part of the shore, Pencroft had discovered the only
habitable shelter, that is to say, the Chimneys, which now had to
be abandoned.

The exploration ended, the colonists found themselves at the
north angle of the cliff, where it terminated in long slopes which
died away on the shore. From this place, to its extreme limit in
the west, it only formed a sort of declivity, a thick mass of
stones, earth, and sand, bound together by plants, bushes, and
grass inclined at an angle of only forty-five degrees. Clumps of
trees grew on these slopes, which were also carpeted with thick
grass. But the vegetation did not extend far, and a long, sandy
plain, which began at the foot of these slopes, reached to the
beach.

Cyrus Harding thought, not without reason, that the overplus of
the lake must overflow on this side. The excess of water furnished
by the Red Creek must also escape by some channel or other. Now the
engineer had not yet found this channel on any part of the shore
already explored, that is to say, from the mouth of the stream on
the west of Prospect Heights.

The engineer now proposed to his companions to climb the slope,
and to return to the Chimneys by the heights, while exploring the
northern and eastern shores of the lake. The proposal was accepted,
and in a few minutes Herbert and Neb were on the upper plateau.
Cyrus Harding, Gideon Spilett, and Pencroft followed with more
sedate steps.

The beautiful sheet of water glittered through the trees under
the rays of the sun. In this direction the country was charming.
The eye feasted on the groups of trees. Some old trunks, bent with
age, showed black against the verdant grass which covered the
ground. Crowds of brilliant cockatoos screamed among the branches,
moving prisms, hopping from one bough to another.

The settlers instead of going directly to the north bank of the
lake, made a circuit round the edge of the plateau, so as to join
the mouth of the creek on its left bank. It was a detour of more
than a mile and a half. Walking was easy, for the trees widely
spread, left a considerable space between them. The fertile zone
evidently stopped at this point, and vegetation would be less
vigorous in the part between the course of the Creek and the
Mercy.

