"Are you quite sure of that, Pencroft?" asked the engineer,
looking at the sailor.

"Of course we shall not be quite sure, till we have explored it
in every direction," replied Pencroft.

"Yes," said Harding, "for we know only a small portion of it as
yet. But at any rate, if we have no enemies in the interior, they
may come from the exterior, for parts of the Pacific are very
dangerous. We must be provided against every contingency."

Cyrus Harding spoke wisely; and without making any further
objection, Pencroft prepared to execute his orders.

The front of Granite House was then to be lighted by five
windows and a door, besides a large bay window and some smaller
oval ones, which would admit plenty of light to enter into the
marvelous nave which was to be their chief room. This facade,
situated at a height of eighty feet above the ground, was exposed
to the east, and the rising sun saluted it with its first rays. It
was found to be just at that part of the cliff which was between
the projection at the mouth of the Mercy and a perpendicular line
traced above the heap of rocks which formed the Chimneys. Thus the
winds from the northeast would only strike it obliquely, for it was
protected by the projection. Besides, until the window-frames were
made, the engineer meant to close the openings with thick shutters,
which would prevent either wind or rain from entering, and which
could be concealed in need.

The first work was to make the openings. This would have taken
too long with the pickaxe alone, and it is known that Harding was
an ingenious man. He had still a quantity of nitro-glycerine at his
disposal, and he employed it usefully. By means of this explosive
substance the rock was broken open at the very places chosen by the
engineer. Then, with the pickaxe and spade, the windows and doors
were properly shaped, the jagged edges were smoothed off, and a few
days alter the beginning of the work, Granite House was abundantly
lighted by the rising sun, whose rays penetrated into its most
secret recesses. Following the plan proposed by Cyrus Harding, the
space was to be divided into five compartments looking out on the
sea; to the right, an entry with a door, which would meet the
ladder; then a kitchen, thirty feet long; a dining-room, measuring
forty feet; a sleeping- room, of equal size; and lastly, a
"Visitor's room," petitioned for by Pencroft, and which was next to
the great hall. These rooms, or rather this suite of rooms, would
not occupy all the depth of the cave. There would be also a
corridor and a storehouse, in which their tools, provisions, and
stores would be kept. All the productions of the island, the flora
as well as the fauna, were to be there in the best possible state
of preservation, and completely sheltered from the damp. There was
no want of space, so that each object could be methodically
arranged. Besides, the colonists had still at their disposal the
little grotto above the great cavern, which was like the garret of
the new dwelling.

This plan settled, it had only to be put into execution. The
miners became brickmakers again, then the bricks were brought to
the foot of Granite House. Till then, Harding and his companions
had only entered the cavern by the long passage. This mode of
communication obliged them first to climb Prospect Heights, making
a detour by the river's bank, and then to descend two hundred feet
through the passage, having to climb as far when they wished to
return to the plateau. This was a great loss of time, and was also
very fatiguing. Cyrus Harding, therefore, resolved to proceed
without any further delay to the fabrication of a strong rope
ladder, which, once raised, would render Granite House completely
inaccessible.

This ladder was manufactured with extreme care, and its
uprights, formed of the twisted fibers of a species of cane, had
the strength of a thick cable. As to the rounds, they were made of
a sort of red cedar, with light, strong branches; and this
apparatus was wrought by the masterly hand of Pencroft.

Other ropes were made with vegetable fibers, and a sort of crane
with a tackle was fixed at the door. In this way bricks could
easily be raised into Granite House. The transport of the materials
being thus simplified, the arrangement of the interior could begin
immediately. There was no want of lime, and some thousands of
bricks were there ready to be used. The framework of the partitions
was soon raised, very roughly at first, and in a short time, the
cave was divided into rooms and storehouses, according to the plan
agreed upon.

These different works progressed rapidly under the direction of
the engineer, who himself handled the hammer and the trowel. No
labor came amiss to Cyrus Harding, who thus set an example to his
intelligent and zealous companions. They worked with confidence,
even gaily, Pencroft always having some joke to crack, sometimes
carpenter, sometimes rope- maker, sometimes mason, while he
communicated his good humor to all the members of their little
world. His faith in the engineer was complete; nothing could
disturb it. He believed him capable of undertaking anything and
succeeding in everything. The question of boots and
clothes—assuredly a serious question,—that of light during the
winter months, utilizing the fertile parts of the island,
transforming the wild flora into cultivated flora, it all appeared
easy to him; Cyrus Harding helping, everything would be done in
time. He dreamed of canals facilitating the transport of the riches
of the ground; workings of quarries and mines; machines for every
industrial manufacture; railroads; yes, railroads! of which a
network would certainly one day cover Lincoln Island.

The engineer let Pencroft talk. He did not put down the
aspirations of this brave heart. He knew how communicable
confidence is; he even smiled to hear him speak, and said nothing
of the uneasiness for the future which he felt. In fact, in that
part of the Pacific, out of the course of vessels, it was to be
feared that no help would ever come to them. It was on themselves,
on themselves alone, that the settlers must depend, for the
distance of Lincoln Island from all other land was such, that to
hazard themselves in a boat, of a necessarily inferior
construction, would be a serious and perilous thing.
