There was no reply to be made to that, but the lad went on with
his collection all the same, and it was well received at Granite
House. Besides these medicinal herbs, he added a plant known in
North America as "Oswego tea," which made an excellent
beverage.

At last, by searching thoroughly, the hunters arrived at the
real site of the warren. There the ground was perforated like a
sieve.

"Here are the burrows!" cried Herbert.

"Yes," replied the reporter, "so I see."

"But are they inhabited?"

"That is the question."

This was soon answered. Almost immediately, hundreds of little
animals, similar to rabbits, fled in every direction, with such
rapidity that even Top could not overtake them. Hunters and dog ran
in vain; these rodents escaped them easily. But the reporter
resolved not to leave the place, until he had captured at least
half-a-dozen of the quadrupeds. He wished to stock their larder
first, and domesticate those which they might take later. It would
not have been difficult to do this, with a few snares stretched at
the openings of the burrows. But at this moment they had neither
snares, nor anything to make them of. They must, therefore, be
satisfied with visiting each hole, and rummaging in it with a
stick, hoping by dint of patience to do what could not be done in
any other way.

At last, after half an hour, four rodents were taken in their
holes. They were similar to their European brethren, and are
commonly known by the name of American rabbits.

This produce of the chase was brought back to Granite House, and
figured at the evening repast. The tenants of the warren were not
at all to be despised, for they were delicious. It was a valuable
resource of the colony, and it appeared to be inexhaustible.

On the 31st of May the partitions were finished. The rooms had
now only to be furnished, and this would be work for the long
winter days. A chimney was established in the first room, which
served as a kitchen. The pipe destined to conduct the smoke outside
gave some trouble to these amateur bricklayers. It appeared
simplest to Harding to make it of brick clay; as creating an outlet
for it to the upper plateau was not to be thought of, a hole was
pierced in the granite above the window of the kitchen, and the
pipe met it like that of an iron stove. Perhaps the winds which
blew directly against the facade would make the chimney smoke, but
these winds were rare, and besides, Master Neb, the cook, was not
so very particular about that.

When these interior arrangements were finished, the engineer
occupied himself in blocking up the outlet by the lake, so as to
prevent any access by that way. Masses of rock were rolled to the
entrance and strongly cemented together. Cyrus Harding did not yet
realize his plan of drowning this opening under the waters of the
lake, by restoring them to their former level by means of a dam. He
contented himself with hiding the obstruction with grass and
shrubs, which were planted in the interstices of the rocks, and
which next spring would sprout thickly. However, he used the
waterfall so as to lead a small stream of fresh water to the new
dwelling. A little trench, made below their level, produced this
result; and this derivation from a pure and inexhaustible source
yielded twenty-five or thirty gallons a day. There would never be
any want of water at Granite House. At last all was finished, and
it was time, for the bad season was near. Thick shutters closed the
windows of the facade, until the engineer had time to make
glass.
