This ended the conversation. Breakfast was finished, the
exploration was continued, and the settlers arrived at the border
of the marshy region. It was a marsh of which the extent, to the
rounded coast which terminated the island at the southeast, was
about twenty square miles. The soil was formed of clayey
flint-earth, mingled with vegetable matter, such as the remains of
rushes, reeds, grass, etc. Here and there beds of grass, thick as a
carpet, covered it. In many places icy pools sparkled in the sun.
Neither rain nor any river, increased by a sudden swelling, could
supply these ponds. They therefore naturally concluded that the
marsh was fed by the infiltrations of the soil and it was really
so. It was also to be feared that during the heat miasmas would
arise, which might produce fevers.

Above the aquatic plants, on the surface of the stagnant water,
fluttered numbers of birds. Wild duck, teal, snipe lived there in
flocks, and those fearless birds allowed themselves to be easily
approached.

One shot from a gun would certainly have brought down some dozen
of the birds, they were so close together. The explorers were,
however, obliged to content themselves with bows and arrows. The
result was less, but the silent arrow had the advantage of not
frightening the birds, while the noise of firearms would have
dispersed them to all parts of the marsh. The hunters were
satisfied, for this time, with a dozen ducks, which had white
bodies with a band of cinnamon, a green head, wings black, white,
and red, and flattened beak. Herbert called them tadorns. Top
helped in the capture of these birds, whose name was given to this
marshy part of the island. The settlers had here an abundant
reserve of aquatic game. At some future time they meant to explore
it more carefully, and it was probable that some of the birds there
might be domesticated, or at least brought to the shores of the
lake, so that they would be more within their reach.

About five o'clock in the evening Cyrus Harding and his
companions retraced their steps to their dwelling by traversing
Tadorn's Fens, and crossed the Mercy on the ice-bridge.

At eight in the evening they all entered Granite House.




