"Let us get a supply," replied Herbert, who immediately set to
work.

The collection was easily made. It was not even necessary to lop
the trees, for enormous quantities of dead wood were lying at their
feet; but if fuel was not wanting, the means of transporting it was
not yet found. The wood, being very dry, would burn rapidly; it was
therefore necessary to carry to the Chimneys a considerable
quantity, and the loads of two men would not be sufficient. Herbert
remarked this.

"Well, my boy," replied the sailor, "there must be some way of
carrying this wood; there is always a way of doing everything. If
we had a cart or a boat, it would be easy enough."

"But we have the river," said Herbert.

"Right," replied Pencroft; "the river will be to us like a road
which carries of itself, and rafts have not been invented for
nothing."

"Only," observed Herbert, "at this moment our road is going the
wrong way, for the tide is rising!"

"We shall be all right if we wait till it ebbs," replied the
sailor, "and then we will trust it to carry our fuel to the
Chimneys. Let us get the raft ready."

The sailor, followed by Herbert, directed his steps towards the
river. They both carried, each in proportion to his strength, a
load of wood bound in fagots. They found on the bank also a great
quantity of dead branches in the midst of grass, among which the
foot of man had probably never before trod. Pencroft began directly
to make his raft. In a kind of little bay, created by a point of
the shore which broke the current, the sailor and the lad placed
some good-sized pieces of wood, which they had fastened together
with dry creepers. A raft was thus formed, on which they stacked
all they had collected, sufficient, indeed, to have loaded at least
twenty men. In an hour the work was finished, and the raft moored
to the bank, awaited the turning of the tide.

There were still several hours to be occupied, and with one
consent Pencroft and Herbert resolved to gain the upper plateau, so
as to have a more extended view of the surrounding country.

Exactly two hundred feet behind the angle formed by the river,
the wall, terminated by a fall of rocks, died away in a gentle
slope to the edge of the forest. It was a natural staircase.
Herbert and the sailor began their ascent; thanks to the vigor of
their muscles they reached the summit in a few minutes; and
proceeded to the point above the mouth of the river.

On attaining it, their first look was cast upon the ocean which
not long before they had traversed in such a terrible condition.
They observed, with emotion, all that part to the north of the
coast on which the catastrophe had taken place. It was there that
Cyrus Harding had disappeared. They looked to see if some portion
of their balloon, to which a man might possibly cling, yet existed.
Nothing! The sea was but one vast watery desert. As to the coast,
it was solitary also. Neither the reporter nor Neb could be
anywhere seen. But it was possible that at this time they were both
too far away to be perceived.
