
"Water!" cried Pencroft, "water as fuel for steamers and
engines! water to heat water!"

"Yes, but water decomposed into its primitive elements," replied
Cyrus Harding, "and decomposed doubtless, by electricity, which
will then have become a powerful and manageable force, for all
great discoveries, by some inexplicable laws, appear to agree and
become complete at the same time. Yes, my friends, I believe that
water will one day be employed as fuel, that hydrogen and oxygen
which constitute it, used singly or together, will furnish an
inexhaustible source of heat and light, of an intensity of which
coal is not capable. Some day the coalrooms of steamers and the
tenders of locomotives will, instead of coal, be stored with these
two condensed gases, which will burn in the furnaces with enormous
calorific power. There is, therefore, nothing to fear. As long as
the earth is inhabited it will supply the wants of its inhabitants,
and there will be no want of either light or heat as long as the
productions of the vegetable, mineral or animal kingdoms do not
fail us. I believe, then, that when the deposits of coal are
exhausted we shall heat and warm ourselves with water. Water will
be the coal of the future."

"I should like to see that," observed the sailor.

"You were born too soon, Pencroft," returned Neb, who only took
part in the discussion by these words.

However, it was not Neb's speech which interrupted the
conversation, but Top's barking, which broke out again with that
strange intonation which had before perplexed the engineer. At the
same time Top began to run round the mouth of the well, which
opened at the extremity of the interior passage.

"What can Top be barking in that way for?" asked Pencroft.

"And Jup be growling like that?" added Herbert.

In fact the orang, joining the dog, gave unequivocal signs of
agitation, and, singular to say, the two animals appeared more
uneasy than angry.

"It is evident," said Gideon Spilett, "that this well is in
direct communication with the sea, and that some marine animal
comes from time to time to breathe at the bottom."

"That's evident," replied the sailor, "and there can be no other
explanation to give. Quiet there, Top!" added Pencroft, turning to
the dog, "and you, Jup, be off to your room!"

