


Chapter

20

&#160;


Things happened as Pencroft had predicted, he being seldom
mistaken in his prognostications. The wind rose, and from a fresh
breeze it soon increased to a regular gale; that is to say, it
acquired a speed of from forty to forty-five miles an hour, before
which a ship in the open sea would have run under close-reefed
topsails. Now, as it was nearly six o'clock when the "Bonadventure"
reached the gulf, and as at that moment the tide turned, it was
impossible to enter. They were therefore compelled to stand off,
for even if he had wished to do so, Pencroft could not have gained
the mouth of the Mercy. Hoisting the jib to the mainmast by way of
a storm-sail, he hove to, putting the head of the vessel towards
the land.

Fortunately, although the wind was strong the sea, being
sheltered by the land, did not run very high. They had then little
to fear from the waves, which always endanger small craft. The
"Bonadventure" would doubtlessly not have capsized, for she was
well ballasted, but enormous masses of water falling on the deck
might injure her if her timbers could not sustain them. Pencroft,
as a good sailor, was prepared for anything. Certainly, he had
great confidence in his vessel, but nevertheless he awaited the
return of day with some anxiety.

During the night, Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett had no
opportunity for talking together, and yet the words pronounced in
the reporter's ear by the engineer were well worth being discussed,
together with the mysterious influence which appeared to reign over
Lincoln Island. Gideon Spilett did not cease from pondering over
this new and inexplicable incident, the appearance of a fire on the
coast of the island. The fire had actually been seen! His
companions, Herbert and Pencroft, had seen it with him! The fire
had served to signalize the position of the island during that dark
night, and they had not doubted that it was lighted by the
engineer's hand; and here was Cyrus Harding expressly declaring
that he had never done anything of the sort! Spilett resolved to
recur to this incident as soon as the "Bonadventure" returned, and
to urge Cyrus Harding to acquaint their companions with these
strange facts. Perhaps it would be decided to make in common a
complete investigation of every part of Lincoln Island.

However that might be, on this evening no fire was lighted on
these yet unknown shores, which formed the entrance to the gulf,
and the little vessel stood off during the night.

When the first streaks of dawn appeared in the western horizon,
the wind, which had slightly fallen, shifted two points, and
enabled Pencroft to enter the narrow gulf with greater ease.
Towards seven o'clock in the morning, the "Bonadventure,"
weathering the North Mandible Cape, entered the strait and glided
on to the waters, so strangely enclosed in the frame of lava.

"Well," said Pencroft, "this bay would make admirable roads, in
which a whole fleet could lie at their ease!"

