The sailor and the lad, creeping among the grass, arrived at the
foot of a tree, whose lower branches were covered with little
birds. The couroucous were waiting the passage of insects which
served for their nourishment. Their feathery feet could be seen
clasping the slender twigs which supported them.

The hunters then rose, and using their sticks like scythes, they
mowed down whole rows of these couroucous, who never thought of
flying away, and stupidly allowed themselves to be knocked off. A
hundred were already heaped on the ground, before the others made
up their minds to fly.

"Well," said Pencroft, "here is game, which is quite within the
reach of hunters like us. We have only to put out our hands and
take it!"

The sailor having strung the couroucous like larks on flexible
twigs, they then continued their exploration. The stream here made
a bend towards the south, but this detour was probably not
prolonged for the river must have its source in the mountain, and
be supplied by the melting of the snow which covered the sides of
the central cone.

The particular object of their expedition was, as has been said,
to procure the greatest possible quantity of game for the
inhabitants of the Chimneys. It must be acknowledged that as yet
this object had not been attained. So the sailor actively pursued
his researches, though he exclaimed, when some animal which he had
not even time to recognize fled into the long grass, "If only we
had had the dog Top!" But Top had disappeared at the same time as
his master, and had probably perished with him.

Towards three o'clock new flocks of birds were seen through
certain trees, at whose aromatic berries they were pecking, those
of the juniper- tree among others. Suddenly a loud trumpet call
resounded through the forest. This strange and sonorous cry was
produced by a game bird called grouse in the United States. They
soon saw several couples, whose plumage was rich chestnut-brown
mottled with dark brown, and tail of the same color. Herbert
recognized the males by the two wing-like appendages raised on the
neck. Pencroft determined to get hold of at least one of these
gallinaceae, which were as large as a fowl, and whose flesh is
better than that of a pullet. But it was difficult, for they would
not allow themselves to be approached. After several fruitless
attempts, which resulted in nothing but scaring the grouse, the
sailor said to the lad,â€”

"Decidedly, since we can't kill them on the wing, we must try to
take them with a line."

"Like a fish?" cried Herbert, much surprised at the
proposal.

"Like a fish," replied the sailor quite seriously. Pencroft had
found among the grass half a dozen grouse nests, each having three
or four eggs. He took great care not to touch these nests, to which
their proprietors would not fail to return. It was around these
that he meant to stretch his lines, not snares, but real
fishing-lines. He took Herbert to some distance from the nests, and
there prepared his singular apparatus with all the care which a
disciple of Izaak Walton would have used. Herbert watched the work
with great interest, though rather doubting its success. The lines
were made of fine creepers, fastened one to the other, of the
length of fifteen or twenty feet. Thick, strong thorns, the points
bent back (which were supplied from a dwarf acacia bush) were
fastened to the ends of the creepers, by way of hooks. Large red
worms, which were crawling on the ground, furnished bait.

This done, Pencroft, passing among the grass and concealing
himself skillfully, placed the end of his lines armed with hooks
near the grouse nests; then he returned, took the other ends and
hid with Herbert behind a large tree. There they both waited
patiently; though, it must be said, that Herbert did not reckon
much on the success of the inventive Pencroft.

A whole half-hour passed, but then, as the sailor had surmised,
several couple of grouse returned to their nests. They walked
along, pecking the ground, and not suspecting in any way the
presence of the hunters, who, besides, had taken care to place
themselves to leeward of the gallinaceae.
