
For the fourth piece Cyrus Harding slightly increased the
charge, so as to try its extreme range. Then, all standing aside
for fear of its bursting, the match was lighted by means of a long
cord.

A tremendous report was heard, but the piece had held good, and
the colonists rushing to the windows, saw the shot graze the rocks
of Mandible Cape, nearly five miles from Granite House, and
disappear in Shark Gulf.

"Well, captain," exclaimed Pencroft, whose cheers might have
rivaled the reports themselves, "what do you say of our battery?
All the pirates in the Pacific have only to present themselves
before Granite House! Not one can land there now without our
permission!"

"Believe me, Pencroft," replied the engineer, "it would be
better not to have to make the experiment."

"Well," said the sailor, "what ought to be done with regard to
those six villains who are roaming about the island? Are we to
leave them to overrun our forests, our fields, our plantations?
These pirates are regular jaguars, and it seems to me we ought not
to hesitate to treat them as such! What do you think, Ayrton?"
added Pencroft, turning to his companion.

Ayrton hesitated at first to reply, and Cyrus Harding regretted
that Pencroft had so thoughtlessly put this question. And he was
much moved when Ayrton replied in a humble tone,â€”

"I have been one of those jaguars, Mr. Pencroft. I have no right
to speak."

And with a slow step he walked away.

Pencroft understood.

"What a brute I am!" he exclaimed. "Poor Ayrton! He has as much
right to speak here as any one!"

