"No! I can swear to it. This is a reef knot, and I always make a
running bowline."

"You must be mistaken, Pencroft."

"I am not mistaken!" declared the sailor. "My hand does it so
naturally, and one's hand is never mistaken!"

"Then can the convicts have been on board?" asked Herbert.

"I know nothing about that," answered Pencroft, "but what is
certain, is that some one has weighed the 'Bonadventure's' anchor
and dropped it again! And look here, here is another proof! The
cable of the anchor has been run out, and its service is no longer
at the hawse-hole. I repeat that some one has been using our
vessel!"

"But if the convicts had used her, they would have pillaged her,
or rather gone off with her."

"Gone off! where toâ€”to Tabor Island?" replied Pencroft. "Do you
think, they would risk themselves in a boat of such small
tonnage?"

"We must, besides, be sure that they know of the islet,"
rejoined the reporter.

"However that may be," said the sailor, "as sure as my name is
Bonadventure Pencroft, of the Vineyard, our 'Bonadventure' has
sailed without us!"

The sailor was positive that neither Gideon Spilett nor Herbert
could dispute his statement. It was evident that the vessel had
been moved, more or less, since Pencroft had brought her to Port
Balloon. As to the sailor, he had not the slightest doubt that the
anchor had been raised and then dropped again. Now, what was the
use of these two maneuvers, unless the vessel had been employed in
some expedition?

"But how was it we did not see the 'Bonadventure' pass in the
sight of the island?" observed the reporter, who was anxious to
bring forward every possible objection.
