
Certainly, it would have been safer to have taken a different
road than that which led straight from the corral to Granite House,
but the cart would have met with great difficulties in moving under
the trees. It was necessary, therefore, to follow this way,
although it was well known to the convicts.

Cyrus Harding and Gideon Spilett walked one on each side of the
cart, ready to answer to any attack. However, it was not probable
that the convicts would have yet left the plateau of Prospect
Heights.

Neb's note had evidently been written and sent as soon as the
convicts had shown themselves there. Now, this note was dated six
o'clock in the morning, and the active orang, accustomed to come
frequently to the corral, had taken scarcely three quarters of an
hour to cross the five miles which separated it from Granite House.
They would, therefore, be safe at that time, and if there was any
occasion for firing, it would probably not be until they were in
the neighborhood of Granite House. However, the colonists kept a
strict watch. Top and Jup, the latter armed with his club,
sometimes in front, sometimes beating the wood at the sides of the
road, signalized no danger.

The cart advanced slowly under Pencroft's guidance. It had left
the corral at half-past seven. An hour after, four out of the five
miles had been cleared, without any incident having occurred. The
road was as deserted as all that part of the Jacamar Wood which lay
between the Mercy and the lake. There was no occasion for any
warning. The wood appeared as deserted as on the day when the
colonists first landed on the island.

They approached the plateau. Another mile and they would see the
bridge over Creek Glycerine. Cyrus Harding expected to find it in
its place; supposing that the convicts would have crossed it, and
that, after having passed one of the streams which enclosed the
plateau, they would have taken the precaution to lower it again, so
as to keep open a retreat.

At length an opening in the trees allowed the sea-horizon to be
seen. But the cart continued its progress, for not one of its
defenders thought of abandoning it.

At that moment Pencroft stopped the onager, and in a hoarse
voice,â€”

"Oh! the villains!" he exclaimed.

And he pointed to a thick smoke rising from the mill, the sheds,
and the buildings at the poultry-yard.

A man was moving about in the midst of the smoke. It was
Neb.

