
"It is a malignant fever," said he.

"A malignant fever!" cried Harding. "You are mistaken, Spilett.
A malignant fever does not declare itself spontaneously; its germ
must previously have existed."

"I am not mistaken," replied the reporter. "Herbert no doubt
contracted the germ of this fever in the marshes of the island. He
has already had one attack; should a second come on and should we
not be able to prevent a third, he is lost."

"But the willow bark?"

"That is insufficient," answered the reporter, "and the third
attack of a malignant fever, which is not arrested by means of
quinine, is always fatal."

Fortunately, Pencroft heard nothing of this conversation or he
would have gone mad.

It may be imagined what anxiety the engineer and the reporter
suffered during the day of the 7th of December and the following
night.

Towards the middle of the day the second attack came on. The
crisis was terrible. Herbert felt himself sinking. He stretched his
arms towards Cyrus Harding, towards Spilett, towards Pencroft. He
was so young to die! The scene was heart-rending. They were obliged
to send Pencroft away.

The fit lasted five hours. It was evident that Herbert could not
survive a third.

The night was frightful. In his delirium Herbert uttered words
which went to the hearts of his companions. He struggled with the
convicts, he called to Ayrton, he poured forth entreaties to that
mysterious being,—that powerful unknown protector,—whose image was
stamped upon his mind; then he again fell into a deep exhaustion
which completely prostrated him. Several times Gideon Spilett
thought that the poor boy was dead.

