


Chapter

13

&#160;


How had it happened? who had killed the convicts? Was it Ayrton?
No, for a moment before he was dreading their return.

But Ayrton was now in a profound stupor, from which it was no
longer possible to rouse him. After uttering those few words he had
again become unconscious, and had fallen back motionless on the
bed.

The colonists, a prey to a thousand confused thoughts, under the
influence of violent excitement, waited all night, without leaving
Ayrton's house, or returning to the spot where lay the bodies of
the convicts. It was very probable that Ayrton would not be able to
throw any light on the circumstances under which the bodies had
been found, since he himself was not aware that he was in the
corral. But at any rate he would be in a position to give an
account of what had taken place before this terrible execution. The
next day Ayrton awoke from his torpor, and his companions cordially
manifested all the joy they felt, on seeing him again, almost safe
and sound, after a hundred and four days separation.

Ayrton then in a few words recounted what had happened, or, at
least, as much as he knew.

The day after his arrival at the corral, on the 10th of last
November, at nightfall, he was surprised by the convicts, who had
scaled the palisade. They bound and gagged him; then he was led to
a dark cavern, at the foot of Mount Franklin, where the convicts
had taken refuge.

His death had been decided upon, and the next day the convicts
were about to kill him, when one of them recognized him and called
him by the name which he bore in Australia. The wretches had no
scruples as to murdering Ayrton! They spared Ben Joyce!

