
"And yet," added Pencroft, "the world is very learned. what a
big book, captain, might be made with all that is known!"

"And what a much bigger book still with all that is not known!"
answered Harding.

At last, for one reason or another, the month of June brought
the cold with its accustomed intensity, and the settlers were often
confined to Granite House. Ah! how wearisome this imprisonment was
to them, and more particularly to Gideon Spilett.

"Look here," said he to Neb one day, "I would give you by
notarial deed all the estates which will come to me some day, if
you were a good enough fellow to go, no matter where, and subscribe
to some newspaper for me! Decidedly the thing that is most
essential to my happiness is the knowing every morning what has
happened the day before in other places than this!"

Neb began to laugh.

"'Pon my word," he replied, "the only thing I think about is my
daily work!"

The truth was that indoors as well as out there was no want of
work.

The colony of Lincoln Island was now at its highest point of
prosperity, achieved by three years of continued hard work. The
destruction of the brig had been a new source of riches. Without
speaking of the complete rig which would serve for the vessel now
on the stocks, utensils and tools of all sorts, weapons and
ammunition, clothes and instruments, were now piled in the
storerooms of Granite House. It had not even been necessary to
resort again to the manufacture of the coarse felt materials.
Though the colonists had suffered from cold during their first
winter, the bad season might now come without their having any
reason to dread its severity. Linen was plentiful also, and
besides, they kept it with extreme care. From chloride of sodium,
which is nothing else than sea salt, Cyrus Harding easily extracted
the soda and chlorine. The soda, which it was easy to change into
carbonate of soda, and the chlorine, of which he made chloride of
lime, were employed for various domestic purposes, and especially
in bleaching linen. Besides, they did not wash more than four times
a year, as was done by families in the olden times, and it may be
added, that Pencroft and Gideon Spilett, while waiting for the
postman to bring him his newspaper, distinguished themselves as
washermen.

So passed the winter months, June, July, and August. They were
severe, and the average observations of the thermometer did not
give more than eight degrees of Fahrenheit. It was therefore lower
in temperature than the preceding winter. But then, what splendid
fires blazed continually on the hearths of Granite House, the smoke
marking the granite wall with long, zebra-like streaks! Fuel was
not spared, as it grew naturally a few steps from them. Besides,
the chips of the wood destined for the construction of the ship
enabled them to economize the coal, which required more trouble to
transport.

Men and animals were all well. Master Jup was a little chilly,
it must be confessed. This was perhaps his only weakness, and it
was necessary to make him a well-padded dressing-gown. But what a
servant he was, clever, zealous, indefatigable, not indiscreet, not
talkative, and he might have been with reason proposed as a model
for all his biped brothers in the Old and New Worlds!

