Civilization never recedes; the law of necessity ever forces it
onwards. The sepoys were vanquished, and the land of the rajahs of
old fell again under the rule of England.

Prince Dakkar, unable to find that death he courted, returned to
the mountain fastnesses of Bundelkund. There, alone in the world,
overcome by disappointment at the destruction of all his vain
hopes, a prey to profound disgust for all human beings, filled with
hatred of the civilized world, he realized the wreck of his
fortune, assembled some score of his most faithful companions, and
one day disappeared, leaving no trace behind.

Where, then, did he seek that liberty denied him upon the
inhabited earth? Under the waves, in the depths of the ocean, where
none could follow.

The warrior became the man of science. Upon a deserted island of
the Pacific he established his dockyard, and there a submarine
vessel was constructed from his designs. By methods which will at
some future day be revealed he had rendered subservient the
illimitable forces of electricity, which, extracted from
inexhaustible sources, was employed for all the requirements of his
floating equipage, as a moving, lighting, and heating agent. The
sea, with its countless treasures, its myriads of fish, its
numberless wrecks, its enormous mammalia, and not only all that
nature supplied, but also all that man had lost in its depths,
sufficed for every want of the prince and his crewâ€”and thus was his
most ardent desire accomplished, never again to hold communication
with the earth. He named his submarine vessel the "Nautilus,"
called himself simply Captain Nemo, and disappeared beneath the
seas.

During many years this strange being visited every ocean, from
pole to pole. Outcast of the inhabited earth in these unknown
worlds he gathered incalculable treasures. The millions lost in the
Bay of Vigo, in 1702, by the galleons of Spain, furnished him with
a mine of inexhaustible riches which he devoted always,
anonymously, in favor of those nations who fought for the
independence of their country.

(This refers to the resurrection of the Candiotes, who were,
in

fact, largely assisted by Captain Nemo.)

For long, however, he had held no communication with his fellow-
creatures, when, during the night of the 6th of November, 1866,
three men were cast on board his vessel. They were a French
professor, his servant, and a Canadian fisherman. These three men
had been hurled overboard by a collision which had taken place
between the "Nautilus" and the United States frigate "Abraham
Lincoln," which had chased her.

Captain Nemo learned from this professor that the "Nautilus,"
taken now for a gigantic mammal of the whale species, now for a
submarine vessel carrying a crew of pirates, was sought for in
every sea.

He might have returned these three men to the ocean, from whence
chance had brought them in contact with his mysterious existence.
Instead of doing this he kept them prisoners, and during seven
months they were enabled to behold all the wonders of a voyage of
twenty thousand leagues under the sea.

One day, the 22nd of June, 1867, these three men, who knew
nothing of the past history of Captain Nemo, succeeded in escaping
in one of the "Nautilus's" boats. But as at this time the
"Nautilus" was drawn into the vortex of the maelstrom, off the
coast of Norway, the captain naturally believed that the fugitives,
engulfed in that frightful whirlpool, found their death at the
bottom of the abyss. He was unaware that the Frenchman and his two
companions had been miraculously cast on shore, that the fishermen
of the Lofoten Islands had rendered them assistance, and that the
professor, on his return to France, had published that work in
which seven months of the strange and eventful navigation of the
"Nautilus" were narrated and exposed to the curiosity of the
public.
