
For a long time alter this, Captain Nemo continued to live thus,
traversing every sea. But one by one his companions died, and found
their last resting-place in their cemetery of coral, in the bed of
the Pacific. At last Captain Nemo remained the solitary survivor of
all those who had taken refuge with him in the depths of the
ocean.

He was now sixty years of age. Although alone, he succeeded in
navigating the "Nautilus" towards one of those submarine caverns
which had sometimes served him as a harbor.

One of these ports was hollowed beneath Lincoln Island, and at
this moment furnished an asylum to the "Nautilus."

The captain had now remained there six years, navigating the
ocean no longer, but awaiting death, and that moment when he should
rejoin his former companions, when by chance he observed the
descent of the balloon which carried the prisoners of the
Confederates. Clad in his diving dress he was walking beneath the
water at a few cables' length from the shore of the island, when
the engineer had been thrown into the sea. Moved by a feeling of
compassion the captain saved Cyrus Harding.

His first impulse was to fly from the vicinity of the five
castaways; but his harbor refuge was closed, for in consequence of
an elevation of the basalt, produced by the influence of volcanic
action, he could no longer pass through the entrance of the vault.
Though there was sufficient depth of water to allow a light craft
to pass the bar, there was not enough for the "Nautilus," whose
draught of water was considerable.

Captain Nemo was compelled, therefore, to remain. He observed
these men thrown without resources upon a desert island, but had no
wish to be himself discovered by them. By degrees he became
interested in their efforts when he saw them honest, energetic, and
bound to each other by the ties of friendship. As if despite his
wishes, he penetrated all the secrets of their existence. By means
of the diving dress he could easily reach the well in the interior
of Granite House, and climbing by the projections of rock to its
upper orifice he heard the colonists as they recounted the past,
and studied the present and future. He learned from them the
tremendous conflict of America with America itself, for the
abolition of slavery. Yes, these men were worthy to reconcile
Captain Nemo with that humanity which they represented so nobly in
the island.

Captain Nemo had saved Cyrus Harding. It was he also who had
brought back the dog to the Chimneys, who rescued Top from the
waters of the lake, who caused to fall at Flotsam Point the case
containing so many things useful to the colonists, who conveyed the
canoe back into the stream of the Mercy, who cast the cord from the
top of Granite House at the time of the attack by the baboons, who
made known the presence of Ayrton upon Tabor Island, by means of
the document enclosed in the bottle, who caused the explosion of
the brig by the shock of a torpedo placed at the bottom of the
canal, who saved Herbert from certain death by bringing the
sulphate of quinine; and finally, it was he who had killed the
convicts with the electric balls, of which he possessed the secret,
and which he employed in the chase of submarine creatures. Thus
were explained so many apparently supernatural occurrences, and
which all proved the generosity and power of the captain.

Nevertheless, this noble misanthrope longed to benefit his
proteges still further. There yet remained much useful advice to
give them, and, his heart being softened by the approach of death,
he invited, as we are aware, the colonists of Granite House to
visit the "Nautilus," by means of a wire which connected it with
the corral. Possibly he would not have done this had he been aware
that Cyrus Harding was sufficiently acquainted with his history to
address him by the name of Nemo.

The captain concluded the narrative of his life. Cyrus Harding
then spoke; he recalled all the incidents which had exercised so
beneficent an influence upon the colony, and in the names of his
companions and himself thanked the generous being to whom they owed
so much.

But Captain Nemo paid little attention; his mind appeared to be
absorbed by one idea, and without taking the proffered hand of the
engineer,â€”

