The sky appeared on fire. The superior cone, a mass of rock a
thousand feet in height, and weighing thousands of millions of
pounds, had been thrown down upon the island, making it tremble to
its foundation. Fortunately, this cone inclined to the north, and
had fallen upon the plain of sand and tufa stretching between the
volcano and the sea. The aperture of the crater being thus enlarged
projected towards the sky a glare so intense that by the simple
effect of reflection the atmosphere appeared red-hot. At the same
time a torrent of lava, bursting from the new summit, poured out in
long cascades, like water escaping from a vase too full, and a
thousand tongues of fire crept over the sides of the volcano.

"The corral! the corral!" exclaimed Ayrton.

It was, in fact, towards the corral that the lava was rushing as
the new crater faced the east, and consequently the fertile
portions of the island, the springs of Red Creek and Jacamar Wood,
were menaced with instant destruction.

At Ayrton's cry the colonists rushed to the onagers' stables.
The cart was at once harnessed. All were possessed by the same
thought—to hasten to the corral and set at liberty the animals it
enclosed.

Before three in the morning they arrived at the corral. The
cries of the terrified musmons and goats indicated the alarm which
possessed them. Already a torrent of burning matter and liquefied
minerals fell from the side of the mountain upon the meadows as far
as the side of the palisade. The gate was burst open by Ayrton, and
the animals, bewildered with terror, fled in all directions.

An hour afterwards the boiling lava filled the corral,
converting into vapor the water of the little rivulet which ran
through it, burning up the house like dry grass, and leaving not
even a post of the palisade to mark the spot where the corral once
stood.

To contend against this disaster would have been folly—nay,
madness. In presence of Nature's grand convulsions man is
powerless.

It was now daylight—the 24th of January. Cyrus Harding and his
companions, before returning to Granite House, desired to ascertain
the probable direction this inundation of lava was about to take.
The soil sloped gradually from Mount Franklin to the east coast,
and it was to be feared that, in spite of the thick Jacamar Wood,
the torrent would reach the plateau of Prospect Heights.

"The lake will cover us," said Gideon Spilett.

"I hope so!" was Cyrus Harding's only reply.

The colonists were desirous of reaching the plain upon which the
superior cone of Mount Franklin had fallen, but the lava arrested
their progress. It had followed, on one side, the valley of Red
Creek, and on the other that of Falls River, evaporating those
watercourses in its passage. There was no possibility of crossing
the torrent of lava; on the contrary, the colonists were obliged to
retreat before it. The volcano, without its crown, was no longer
recognizable, terminated as it was by a sort of flat table which
replaced the ancient crater. From two openings in its southern and
eastern sides an unceasing flow of lava poured forth, thus forming
two distinct streams. Above the new crater a cloud of smoke and
ashes, mingled with those of the atmosphere, massed over the
island. Loud peals of thunder broke, and could scarcely be
distinguished from the rumblings of the mountain, whose mouth
vomited forth ignited rocks, which, hurled to more than a thousand
feet, burst in the air like shells. Flashes of lightning rivaled in
intensity the volcano's eruption.
