
"What a pity!" said Herbert, "such a useful tree, and which has
such beautiful nuts!"

As to the birds, they swarmed among the scanty branches of the
eucalypti and casuarinas, which did not hinder the display of their
wings. Black, white, or gray cockatoos, paroquets, with plumage of
all colors, kingfishers of a sparkling green and crowned with red,
blue lories, and various other birds appeared on all sides, as
through a prism, fluttering about and producing a deafening clamor.
Suddenly, a strange concert of discordant voices resounded in the
midst of a thicket. The settlers heard successively the song of
birds, the cry of quadrupeds, and a sort of clacking which they
might have believed to have escaped from the lips of a native. Neb
and Herbert rushed towards the bush, forgetting even the most
elementary principles of prudence. Happily, they found there,
neither a formidable wild beast nor a dangerous native, but merely
half a dozen mocking and singing birds, known as mountain
pheasants. A few skillful blows from a stick soon put an end to
their concert, and procured excellent food for the evening's
dinner.

Herbert also discovered some magnificent pigeons with bronzed
wings, some superbly crested, others draped in green, like their
congeners at Port- Macquarie; but it was impossible to reach them,
or the crows and magpies which flew away in flocks.

A charge of small shot would have made great slaughter among
these birds, but the hunters were still limited to sticks and
stones, and these primitive weapons proved very insufficient.

Their insufficiency was still more clearly shown when a troop of
quadrupeds, jumping, bounding, making leaps of thirty feet, regular
flying mammiferae, fled over the thickets, so quickly and at such a
height, that one would have thought that they passed from one tree
to another like squirrels.

"Kangaroos!" cried Herbert.

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft.

"Stewed," replied the reporter, "their flesh is equal to the
best venison!â€”"

Gideon Spilett had not finished this exciting sentence when the
sailor, followed by Neb and Herbert, darted on the kangaroos
tracks. Cyrus Harding called them back in vain. But it was in vain
too for the hunters to pursue such agile game, which went bounding
away like balls. After a chase of five minutes, they lost their
breath, and at the same time all sight of the creatures, which
disappeared in the wood. Top was not more successful than his
masters.

"Captain," said Pencroft, when the engineer and the reporter had
rejoined them, "Captain, you see quite well we can't get on unless
we make a few guns. Will that be possible?"

