Cyrus Harding proposed that they should return to the western
shore of the lake, where the day before he had noticed the clayey
ground of which he possessed a specimen. They therefore followed
the bank of the Mercy, traversed Prospect Heights, and alter a walk
of five miles or more they reached a glade, situated two hundred
feet from Lake Grant.

On the way Herbert had discovered a tree, the branches of which
the Indians of South America employ for making their bows. It was
the crejimba, of the palm family, which does not bear edible fruit.
Long straight branches were cut, the leaves stripped off; it was
shaped, stronger in the middle, more slender at the extremities,
and nothing remained to be done but to find a plant fit to make the
bow-string. This was the "hibiscus heterophyllus," which furnishes
fibers of such remarkable tenacity that they have been compared to
the tendons of animals. Pencroft thus obtained bows of tolerable
strength, for which he only wanted arrows. These were easily made
with straight stiff branches, without knots, but the points with
which they must be armed, that is to say, a substance to serve in
lieu of iron, could not be met with so easily. But Pencroft said,
that having done his part of the work, chance would do the
rest.

The settlers arrived on the ground which had been discovered the
day before. Being composed of the sort of clay which is used for
making bricks and tiles, it was very useful for the work in
question. There was no great difficulty in it. It was enough to
scour the clay with sand, then to mold the bricks and bake them by
the heat of a wood fire.

Generally bricks are formed in molds, but the engineer contented
himself with making them by hand. All that day and the day
following were employed in this work. The clay, soaked in water,
was mixed by the feet and hands of the manipulators, and then
divided into pieces of equal size. A practiced workman can make,
without a machine, about ten thousand bricks in twelve hours; but
in their two days work the five brickmakers on Lincoln Island had
not made more than three thousand, which were ranged near each
other, until the time when their complete desiccation would permit
them to be used in building the oven, that is to say, in three or
four days.

It was on the 2nd of April that Harding had employed himself in
fixing the orientation of the island, or, in other words, the
precise spot where the sun rose. The day before he had noted
exactly the hour when the sun disappeared beneath the horizon,
making allowance for the refraction. This morning he noted, no less
exactly, the hour at which it reappeared. Between this setting and
rising twelve hours, twenty-four minutes passed. Then, six hours,
twelve minutes after its rising, the sun on this day would exactly
pass the meridian and the point of the sky which it occupied at
this moment would be the north. At the said hour, Cyrus marked this
point, and putting in a line with the sun two trees which would
serve him for marks, he thus obtained an invariable meridian for
his ulterior operations.

The settlers employed the two days before the oven was built in
collecting fuel. Branches were cut all round the glade, and they
picked up all the fallen wood under the trees. They were also able
to hunt with greater success, since Pencroft now possessed some
dozen arrows armed with sharp points. It was Top who had famished
these points, by bringing in a porcupine, rather inferior eating,
but of great value, thanks to the quills with which it bristled.
These quills were fixed firmly at the ends of the arrows, the
flight of which was made more certain by some cockatoos' feathers.
The reporter and Herbert soon became very skilful archers. Game of
all sorts in consequence abounded at the Chimneys, capybaras,
pigeons, agouties, grouse, etc. The greater part of these animals
were killed in the part of the forest on the left bank of the
Mercy, to which they gave the name of Jacamar Wood, in remembrance
of the bird which Pencroft and Herbert had pursued when on their
first exploration.

This game was eaten fresh, but they preserved some capybara
hams, by smoking them above a fire of green wood, after having
perfumed them with sweet-smelling leaves. However, this food,
although very strengthening, was always roast upon roast, and the
party would have been delighted to hear some soup bubbling on the
hearth, but they must wait till a pot could be made, and,
consequently, till the oven was built.

During these excursions, which were not extended far from the
brick- field, the hunters could discern the recent passage of
animals of a large size, armed with powerful claws, but they could
not recognize the species. Cyrus Harding advised them to be very
careful, as the forest probably enclosed many dangerous beasts.

And he did right. Indeed, Gideon Spilett and Herbert one day saw
an animal which resembled a jaguar. Happily the creature did not
attack them, or they might not have escaped without a severe wound.
As soon as he could get a regular weapon, that is to say, one of
the guns which Pencroft begged for, Gideon Spilett resolved to make
desperate war against the ferocious beasts, and exterminate them
from the island.

The Chimneys during these few days was not made more
comfortable, for the engineer hoped to discover, or build if
necessary, a more convenient dwelling. They contented themselves
with spreading moss and dry leaves on the sand of the passages, and
on these primitive couches the tired workers slept soundly.

They also reckoned the days they had passed on Lincoln Island,
and from that time kept a regular account. The 5th of April, which
was Wednesday, was twelve days from the time when the wind threw
the castaways on this shore.
