


Chapter

3
A
Meeting with the Schoolboys


"THANK goodness he did not ask me about Grushenka," thought
Alyosha, as he left his father's house and turned towards Madame
Hohlakov's, "or I might have had to tell him of my meeting with
Grushenka yesterday."

Alyosha felt painfully that since yesterday both combatants had
renewed their energies, and that their hearts had grown hard again.
"Father is spiteful and angry, he's made some plan and will stick
to it. And what of Dmitri? He too will be harder than yesterday, he
too must be spiteful and angry, and he too, no doubt, has made some
plan. Oh, I must succeed in finding him to-day, whatever
happens."

But Alyosha had not long to meditate. An incident occurred on
the road, which, though apparently of little consequence, made a
great impression on him. just after he had crossed the square and
turned the corner coming out into Mihailovsky Street, which is
divided by a small ditch from the High Street (our whole town is
intersected by ditches), he saw a group of schoolboys between the
ages of nine and twelve, at the bridge. They were going home from
school, some with their bags on their shoulders, others with
leather satchels slung across them, some in short jackets, others
in little overcoats. Some even had those high boots with creases
round the ankles, such as little boys spoilt by rich fathers love
to wear. The whole group was talking eagerly about something,
apparently holding a council. Alyosha had never from his Moscow
days been able to pass children without taking notice of them, and
although he was particularly fond of children of three or
thereabout, he liked schoolboys of ten and eleven too. And so,
anxious as he was to-day, he wanted at once to turn aside to talk
to them. He looked into their excited rosy faces, and noticed at
once that all the boys had stones in their hands. Behind the ditch
some thirty paces away, there was another schoolboy standing by a
fence. He too had a satchel at his side. He was about ten years
old, pale, delicate-looking and with sparkling black eyes. He kept
an attentive and anxious watch on the other six, obviously his
schoolfellows with whom he had just come out of school, but with
whom he had evidently had a feud.

Alyosha went up and, addressing a fair, curly-headed, rosy boy
in a black jacket, observed:

"When I used to wear a satchel like yours, I always used to
carry it on my left side, so as to have my right hand free, but
you've got yours on your right side. So it will be awkward for you
to get at it."

Alyosha had no art or premeditation in beginning with this
practical remark. But it is the only way for a grown-up person to
get at once into confidential relations with a child, or still more
with a group of children. One must begin in a serious, businesslike
way so as to be on a perfectly equal footing. Alyosha understood it
by instinct.

"But he is left-handed," another, a fine healthy-looking boy of
eleven, answered promptly. All the others stared at Alyosha.
