
"First of all, answer the question, where did you get hurt like
this?" she asked Alyosha, quickly. "And then I'll talk to you about
something quite different. Well?"

Instinctively feeling that the time of her mother's absence was
precious for her, Alyosha hastened to tell her of his enigmatic
meeting with the school boys in the fewest words possible. Lise
clasped her hands at his story.

"How can you, and in that dress too, associate with schoolboys?"
she cried angrily, as though she had a right to control him. "You
are nothing but a boy yourself if you can do that, a perfect boy!
But you must find out for me about that horrid boy and tell me all
about it, for there's some mystery in it. Now for the second thing,
but first a question: does the pain prevent you talking about
utterly unimportant things, but talking sensibly?"

"Of course not, and I don't feel much pain now."

"That's because your finger is in the water. It must be changed
directly, for it will get warm in a minute. Yulia, bring some ice
from the cellar and another basin of water. Now she is gone, I can
speak; will you give me the letter I sent you yesterday, dear
Alexey Fyodorovitch- be quick, for mamma will be back in a minute
and I don't want- "

"I haven't got the letter."

"That's not true, you have. I knew you would say that. You've
got it in that pocket. I've been regretting that joke all night.
Give me back the letter at once, give it me."

"I've left it at home."

"But you can't consider me as a child, a little girl, after that
silly joke! I beg your pardon for that silliness, but you must
bring me the letter, if you really haven't got it- bring to-day,
you must, you must."

"To-day I can't possibly, for I am going back to the monastery
and I shan't come and see you for the next two days- three or four
perhaps- for Father Zossima- "

