
"Just as he did God, then?" observed Alyosha.

"'It's wonderful how you can turn words,' as Polonius says in
Hamlet," laughed Ivan. "You turn my words against me. Well, I am
glad. Yours must be a fine God, if man created Him in his image and
likeness. You asked just now what I was driving at. You see, I am
fond of collecting certain facts, and, would you believe, I even
copy anecdotes of a certain sort from newspapers and books, and
I've already got a fine collection. The Turks, of course, have gone
into it, but they are foreigners. I have specimens from home that
are even better than the Turks. You know we prefer beating- rods
and scourges- that's our national institution. Nailing ears is
unthinkable for us, for we are, after all, Europeans. But the rod
and the scourge we have always with us and they cannot be taken
from us. Abroad now they scarcely do any beating. Manners are more
humane, or laws have been passed, so that they don't dare to flog
men now. But they make up for it in another way just as national as
ours. And so national that it would be practically impossible among
us, though I believe we are being inoculated with it, since the
religious movement began in our aristocracy. I have a charming
pamphlet, translated from the French, describing how, quite
recently, five years ago, a murderer, Richard, was executed- a
young man, I believe, of three and twenty, who repented and was
converted to the Christian faith at the very scaffold. This Richard
was an illegitimate child who was given as a child of six by his
parents to some shepherds on the Swiss mountains. They brought him
up to work for them. He grew up like a little wild beast among
them. The shepherds taught him nothing, and scarcely fed or clothed
him, but sent him out at seven to herd the flock in cold and wet,
and no one hesitated or scrupled to treat him so. Quite the
contrary, they thought they had every right, for Richard had been
given to them as a chattel, and they did not even see the necessity
of feeding him. Richard himself describes how in those years, like
the Prodigal Son in the Gospel, he longed to eat of the mash given
to the pigs, which were fattened for sale. But they wouldn't even
give that, and beat him when he stole from the pigs. And that was
how he spent all his childhood and his youth, till he grew up and
was strong enough to go away and be a thief. The savage began to
earn his living as a day labourer in Geneva. He drank what he
earned, he lived like a brute, and finished by killing and robbing
an old man. He was caught, tried, and condemned to death. They are
not sentimentalists there. And in prison he was immediately
surrounded by pastors, members of Christian brotherhoods,
philanthropic ladies, and the like. They taught him to read and
write in prison, and expounded the Gospel to him. They exhorted
him, worked upon him, drummed at him incessantly, till at last he
solemnly confessed his crime. He was converted. He wrote to the
court himself that he was a monster, but that in the end God had
vouchsafed him light and shown grace. All Geneva was in excitement
about him- all philanthropic and religious Geneva. All the
aristocratic and well-bred society of the town rushed to the
prison, kissed Richard and embraced him; 'You are our brother, you
have found grace.' And Richard does nothing but weep with emotion,
'Yes, I've found grace! All my youth and childhood I was glad of
pigs' food, but now even I have found grace. I am dying in the
Lord.' 'Yes, Richard, die in the Lord; you have shed blood and must
die. Though it's not your fault that you knew not the Lord, when
you coveted the pigs' food and were beaten for stealing it (which
was very wrong of you, for stealing is forbidden); but you've shed
blood and you must die.'And on the last day, Richard, perfectly
limp, did nothing but cry and repeat every minute: 'This is my
happiest day. I am going to the Lord.' 'Yes,' cry the pastors and
the judges and philanthropic ladies. 'This is the happiest day of
your life, for you are going to the Lord!' They all walk or drive
to the scaffold in procession behind the prison van. At the
scaffold they call to Richard: 'Die, brother, die in the Lord, for
even thou hast found grace!' And so, covered with his brothers'
kisses, Richard is dragged on to the scaffold, and led to the
guillotine. And they chopped off his head in brotherly fashion,
because he had found grace. Yes, that's characteristic. That
pamphlet is translated into Russian by some Russian philanthropists
of aristocratic rank and evangelical aspirations, and has been
distributed gratis for the enlightenment of the people. The case of
Richard is interesting because it's national. Though to us it's
absurd to cut off a man's head, because he has become our brother
and has found grace, yet we have our own speciality, which is all
but worse. Our historical pastime is the direct satisfaction of
inflicting pain. There are lines in Nekrassov describing how a
peasant lashes a horse on the eyes, 'on its meek eyes,' everyone
must have seen it. It's peculiarly Russian. He describes how a
feeble little nag has foundered under too heavy a load and cannot
move. The peasant beats it, beats it savagely, beats it at last not
knowing what he is doing in the intoxication of cruelty, thrashes
it mercilessly over and over again. 'However weak you are, you must
pull, if you die for it.' The nag strains, and then he begins
lashing the poor defenceless creature on its weeping, on its 'meek
eyes.' The frantic beast tugs and draws the load, trembling all
over, gasping for breath, moving sideways, with a sort of unnatural
spasmodic action- it's awful in Nekrassov. But that only a horse,
and God has horses to be beaten. So the Tatars have taught us, and
they left us the knout as a remembrance of it. But men, too, can be
beaten. A well-educated, cultured gentleman and his wife beat their
own child with a birch-rod, a girl of seven. I have an exact
account of it. The papa was glad that the birch was covered with
twigs. 'It stings more,' said he, and so be began stinging his
daughter. I know for a fact there are people who at every blow are
worked up to sensuality, to literal sensuality, which increases
progressively at every blow they inflict. They beat for a minute,
for five minutes, for ten minutes, more often and more savagely.
The child screams. At last the child cannot scream, it gasps,
'Daddy daddy!' By some diabolical unseemly chance the case was
brought into court. A counsel is engaged. The Russian people have
long called a barrister 'a conscience for hire.' The counsel
protests in his client's defence. 'It's such a simple thing,' he
says, 'an everyday domestic event. A father corrects his child. To
our shame be it said, it is brought into court.' The jury,
convinced by him, give a favourable verdict. The public roars with
delight that the torturer is acquitted. Ah, pity I wasn't there! I
would have proposed to raise a subscription in his honour! Charming
pictures.

"But I've still better things about children. I've collected a
great, great deal about Russian children, Alyosha. There was a
little girl of five who was hated by her father and mother, 'most
worthy and respectable people, of good education and breeding.' You
see, I must repeat again, it is a peculiar characteristic of many
people, this love of torturing children, and children only. To all
other types of humanity these torturers behave mildly and
benevolently, like cultivated and humane Europeans; but they are
very fond of tormenting children, even fond of children themselves
in that sense. it's just their defencelessness that tempts the
tormentor, just the angelic confidence of the child who has no
refuge and no appeal, that sets his vile blood on fire. In every
man, of course, a demon lies hidden- the demon of rage, the demon
of lustful heat at the screams of the tortured victim, the demon of
lawlessness let off the chain, the demon of diseases that follow on
vice, gout, kidney disease, and so on.

"This poor child of five was subjected to every possible torture
by those cultivated parents. They beat her, thrashed her, kicked
her for no reason till her body was one bruise. Then, they went to
greater refinements of cruelty- shut her up all night in the cold
and frost in a privy, and because she didn't ask to be taken up at
night (as though a child of five sleeping its angelic, sound sleep
could be trained to wake and ask), they smeared her face and filled
her mouth with excrement, and it was her mother, her mother did
this. And that mother could sleep, hearing the poor child's groans!
Can you understand why a little creature, who can't even understand
what's done to her, should beat her little aching heart with her
tiny fist in the dark and the cold, and weep her meek unresentful
tears to dear, kind God to protect her? Do you understand that,
friend and brother, you pious and humble novice? Do you understand
why this infamy must be and is permitted? Without it, I am told,
man could not have existed on earth, for he could not have known
good and evil. Why should he know that diabolical good and evil
when it costs so much? Why, the whole world of knowledge is not
worth that child's prayer to dear, kind God'! I say nothing of the
sufferings of grown-up people, they have eaten the apple, damn
them, and the devil take them all! But these little ones! I am
making you suffer, Alyosha, you are not yourself. I'll leave off if
you like."

"Nevermind. I want to suffer too," muttered Alyosha.

"One picture, only one more, because it's so curious, so
characteristic, and I have only just read it in some collection of
Russian antiquities. I've forgotten the name. I must look it up. It
was in the darkest days of serfdom at the beginning of the century,
and long live the Liberator of the People! There was in those days
a general of aristocratic connections, the owner of great estates,
one of those men- somewhat exceptional, I believe, even then- who,
retiring from the service into a life of leisure, are convinced
that they've earned absolute power over the lives of their
subjects. There were such men then. So our general, settled on his
property of two thousand souls, lives in pomp, and domineers over
his poor neighbours as though they were dependents and buffoons. He
has kennels of hundreds of hounds and nearly a hundred dog-boys-
all mounted, and in uniform. One day a serf-boy, a little child of
eight, threw a stone in play and hurt the paw of the general's
favourite hound. 'Why is my favourite dog lame?' He is told that
the boy threw a stone that hurt the dog's paw. 'So you did it.' The
general looked the child up and down. 'Take him.' He was taken-
taken from his mother and kept shut up all night. Early that
morning the general comes out on horseback, with the hounds, his
dependents, dog-boys, and huntsmen, all mounted around him in full
hunting parade. The servants are summoned for their edification,
and in front of them all stands the mother of the child. The child
is brought from the lock-up. It's a gloomy, cold, foggy, autumn
day, a capital day for hunting. The general orders the child to be
undressed; the child is stripped naked. He shivers, numb with
terror, not daring to cry… . 'Make him run,' commands the general.
'Run! run!' shout the dog-boys. The boy runs… . 'At him!' yells the
general, and he sets the whole pack of hounds on the child. The
hounds catch him, and tear him to pieces before his mother's eyes!…
I believe the general was afterwards declared incapable of
administering his estates. Well- what did he deserve? To be shot?
To be shot for the satisfaction of our moral feelings? Speak,
Alyosha!

"To be shot," murmured Alyosha, lifting his eyes to Ivan with a
pale, twisted smile.

"Bravo!" cried Ivan delighted. "If even you say so… You're a
pretty monk! So there is a little devil sitting in your heart,
Alyosha Karamazov!"

"What I said was absurd, but-"

"That's just the point, that 'but'!" cried Ivan. "Let me tell
you, novice, that the absurd is only too necessary on earth. The
world stands on absurdities, and perhaps nothing would have come to
pass in it without them. We know what we know!"

