"Substantially nothing- but just by way of conversation."

Another silence followed. They did not speak for nearly a
minute. Ivan knew that he ought to get up and show anger, and
Smerdyakov stood before him and seemed to be waiting as though to
see whether he would be angry or not. So at least it seemed to
Ivan. At last he moved to get up. Smerdyakov seemed to seize the
moment.

"I'm in an awful position, Ivan Fyodorovitch. I don't know how
to help myself," he said resolutely and distinctly, and at his last
word he sighed. Ivan Fyodorovitch sat down again.

"They are both utterly crazy, they are no better than little
children," Smerdyakov went on. "I am speaking of your parent and
your brother Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Here Fyodor Pavlovitch will get
up directly and begin worrying me every minute, 'Has she come? Why
hasn't she come?' and so on up till midnight and even after
midnight. And if Agrafena Alexandrovna doesn't come (for very
likely she does not mean to come at all) then he will be at me
again to-morrow morning, 'Why hasn't she come? When will she
come?'- as though I were to blame for it. On the other side it's no
better. As soon as it gets dark, or even before, your brother will
appear with his gun in his hands: 'Look out, you rogue, you
soup-maker. If you miss her and don't let me know she's been- I'll
kill you before anyone.' When the night's over, in the morning, he,
too, like Fyodor Pavlovitch, begins worrying me to death. 'Why
hasn't she come? Will she come soon?' And he, too, thinks me to
blame because his lady hasn't come. And every day and every hour
they get angrier and angrier, so that I sometimes think I shall
kill myself in a fright. I can't depend them, sir."

"And why have you meddled? Why did you begin to spy for Dmitri
Fyodorovitch?" said Ivan irritably.

"How could I help meddling? Though, indeed, I haven't meddled at
all, if you want to know the truth of the matter. I kept quiet from
the very beginning, not daring to answer; but he pitched on me to
be his servant. He has had only one thing to say since: 'I'll kill
you, you scoundrel, if you miss her.' I feel certain, sir, that I
shall have a long fit to-morrow."

"What do you mean by 'a long fit'?"

"A long fit, lasting a long time- several hours, or perhaps a
day or two. Once it went on for three days. I fell from the garret
that time. The struggling ceased and then began again, and for
three days I couldn't come back to my senses. Fyodor Pavlovitch
sent for Herzenstube, the doctor here, and he put ice on my head
and tried another remedy, tooâ€¦ . I might have died."

"But they say one can't tell with epilepsy when a fit is coming.
What makes you say you will have one to-morrow?" Ivan inquired,
with a peculiar, irritable curiosity.

"That's just so. You can't tell beforehand."

"Besides, you fell from the garret then."
