The windows of his room looked out into the garden, and our
garden was a shady one, with old trees in it which were coming into
bud. The first birds of spring were flitting in the branches,
chirruping and singing at the windows. And looking at them and
admiring them, he began suddenly begging their forgiveness too:
"Birds of heaven, happy birds, forgive me, for I have sinned
against you too." None of us could understand that at the time, but
he shed tears of joy. "Yes," he said, "there was such a glory of
God all about me: birds, trees, meadows, sky; only I lived in shame
and dishonoured it all and did not notice the beauty and
glory."

"You take too many sins on yourself," mother used to say,
weeping.

"Mother, darling, it's for joy, not for grief I am crying.
Though I can't explain it to you, I like to humble myself before
them, for I don't know how to love them enough. If I have sinned
against everyone, yet all forgive me, too, and that's heaven. Am I
not in heaven now?"

And there was a great deal more I don't remember. I remember I
went once into his room when there was no one else there. It was a
bright evening, the sun was setting, and the whole room was lighted
up. He beckoned me, and I went up to him. He put his hands on my
shoulders and looked into my face tenderly, lovingly; he said
nothing for a minute, only looked at me like that.

"Well," he said, "run and play now, enjoy life for me too."

I went out then and ran to play. And many times in my life
afterwards I remembered even with tears how he told me to enjoy
life for him too. There were many other marvellous and beautiful
sayings of his, though we did not understand them at the time. He
died the third week after Easter. He was fully conscious though he
could not talk; up to his last hour he did not change. He looked
happy, his eyes beamed and sought us, he smiled at us, beckoned us.
There was a great deal of talk even in the town about his death. I
was impressed by all this at the time, but not too much so, though
I cried a good deal at his funeral. I was young then, a child, but
a lasting impression, a hidden feeling of it all, remained in my
heart, ready to rise up and respond when the time came. So indeed
it happened.

(b) Of the Holy Scriptures in the Life of Father Zossima.

I was left alone with my mother. Her friends began advising her
to send me to Petersburg as other parents did. "You have only one
son now," they said, "and have a fair income, and you will be
depriving him perhaps of a brilliant career if you keep him here."
They suggested I should be sent to Petersburg to the Cadet Corps,
that I might afterwards enter the Imperial Guard. My mother
hesitated for a long time, it was awful to part with her only
child, but she made up her mind to it at last, though not without
many tears, believing she was acting for my happiness. She brought
me to Petersburg and put me into the Cadet Corps, and I never saw
her again. For she too died three years afterwards. She spent those
three years mourning and grieving for both of us.

From the house of my childhood I have brought nothing but
precious memories, for there are no memories more precious than
those of early childhood in one's first home. And that is almost
always so if there is any love and harmony in the family at all.
Indeed, precious memories may remain even of a bad home, if only
the heart knows how to find what is precious. With my memories of
home I count, too, my memories of the Bible, which, child as I was,
I was very eager to read at home. I had a book of Scripture history
then with excellent pictures, called A Hundred and Four Stories
from the Old and New Testament, and I learned to read from it. I
have it lying on my shelf now; I keep it as a precious relic of the
past. But even before I learned to read, I remember first being
moved to devotional feeling at eight years old. My mother took me
alone to mass (I don't remember where my brother was at the time)
on the Monday before Easter. It was a fine day, and I remember
to-day, as though I saw it now, how the incense rose from the
censer and softly floated upwards and, overhead in the cupola,
mingled in rising waves with the sunlight that streamed in at the
little window. I was stirred by the sight, and for the first time
in my life I consciously received the seed of God's word in my
heart. A youth came out into the middle of the church carrying a
big book, so large that at the time I fancied he could scarcely
carry it. He laid it on the reading desk, opened it, and began
reading, and suddenly for the first time I understood something
read in the church of God. In the land of Uz, there lived a man,
righteous and God-fearing, and he had great wealth, so many camels,
so many sheep and asses, and his children feasted, and he loved
them very much and prayed for them. "It may be that my sons have
sinned in their feasting." Now the devil came before the Lord
together with the sons of God, and said to the Lord that he had
gone up and down the earth and under the earth. "And hast thou
considered my servant Job?" God asked of him. And God boasted to
the devil, pointing to His great and holy servant. And the devil
laughed at God's words. "Give him over to me and Thou wilt see that
Thy servant will murmur against Thee and curse Thy name." And God
gave up the just man He loved so, to the devil. And the devil smote
his children and his cattle and scattered his wealth, all of a
sudden like a thunderbolt from heaven. And Job rent his mantle and
fell down upon the ground and cried aloud, "Naked came I out of my
mother's womb, and naked shall I return into the earth; the Lord
gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord
for ever and ever."

Fathers and teachers, forgive my tears now, for all my childhood
rises up again before me, and I breathe now as I breathed then,
with the breast of a little child of eight, and I feel as I did
then, awe and wonder and gladness. The camels at that time caught
my imagination, and Satan, who talked like that with God, and God
who gave His servant up to destruction, and His servant crying out:
"Blessed be Thy name although Thou dost punish me," and then the
soft and sweet singing in the church: "Let my prayer rise up before
Thee," and again incense from the priest's censer and the kneeling
and the prayer. Ever since then- only yesterday I took it up- I've
never been able to read that sacred tale without tears. And how
much that is great, mysterious and unfathomable there is in it!
Afterwards I heard the words of mockery and blame, proud words,
"How could God give up the most loved of His saints for the
diversion of the devil, take from him his children, smite him with
sore boils so that he cleansed the corruption from his sores with a
potsherd- and for no object except to boast to the devil 'See what
My saint can suffer for My sake.' "But the greatness of it lies
just in the fact that it is a mystery- that the passing earthly
show and the eternal verity are brought together in it. In the face
of the earthly truth, the eternal truth is accomplished. The
Creator, just as on the first days of creation He ended each day
with praise: "That is good that I have created," looks upon Job and
again praises His creation. And Job, praising the Lord, serves not
only Him but all His creation for generations and generations, and
for ever and ever, since for that he was ordained. Good heavens,
what a book it is, and what lessons there are in it! What a book
the Bible is, what a miracle, what strength is given with it to
man! It is like a mould cast of the world and man and human nature,
everything is there, and a law for everything for all the ages. And
what mysteries are solved and revealed! God raises Job again, gives
him wealth again. Many years pass by, and he has other children and
loves them. But how could he love those new ones when those first
children are no more, when he has lost them? Remembering them, how
could he be fully happy with those new ones, however dear the new
ones might be? But he could, he could. It's the great mystery of
human life that old grief passes gradually into quiet, tender joy.
The mild serenity of age takes the place of the riotous blood of
youth. I bless the rising sun each day, and, as before, my heart
sings to meet it, but now I love even more its setting, its long
slanting rays and the soft, tender, gentle memories that come with
them, the dear images from the whole of my long, happy life- and
over all the Divine Truth, softening, reconciling, forgiving! My
life is ending, I know that well, but every day that is left me I
feel how earthly life is in touch with a new infinite, unknown, but
approaching life, the nearness of which sets my soul quivering with
rapture, my mind glowing and my heart weeping with joy.

Friends and teachers, I have heard more than once, and of late
one may hear it more often, that the priests, and above all the
village priests, are complaining on all sides of their miserable
income and their humiliating lot. They plainly state, even in
print- I've read it myself- that they are unable to teach the
Scriptures to the people because of the smallness of their means,
and if Lutherans and heretics come and lead the flock astray, they
let them lead them astray because they have so little to live upon.
May the Lord increase the sustenance that is so precious to them,
for their complaint is just, too. But of a truth I say, if anyone
is to blame in the matter, half the fault is ours. For he may be
short of time, he may say truly that he is overwhelmed all the
while with work and services, but still it's not all the time, even
he has an hour a week to remember God. And he does not work the
whole year round. Let him gather round him once a week, some hour
in the evening, if only the children at first- the fathers will
hear of it and they too will begin to come. There's no need to
build halls for this, let him take them into his own cottage. They
won't spoil his cottage, they would only be there one hour. Let him
open that book and begin reading it without grand words or
superciliousness, without condescension to them, but gently and
kindly, being glad that he is reading to them and that they are
listening with attention, loving the words himself, only stopping
from time to time to explain words that are not understood by the
peasants. Don't be anxious, they will understand everything, the
orthodox heart will understand all! Let him read them about Abraham
and Sarah, about Isaac and Rebecca, of how Jacob went to Laban and
wrestled with the Lord in his dream and said, "This place is holy"-
and he will impress the devout mind of the peasant. Let him read,
especially to the children, how the brothers sold Joseph, the
tender boy, the dreamer and prophet, into bondage, and told their
father that a wild beast had devoured him, and showed him his
blood-stained clothes. Let him read them how the brothers
afterwards journeyed into Egypt for corn, and Joseph, already a
great ruler, unrecognised by them, tormented them, accused them,
kept his brother Benjamin, and all through love: "I love you, and
loving you I torment you." For he remembered all his life how they
had sold him to the merchants in the burning desert by the well,
and how, wringing his hands, he had wept and besought his brothers
not to sell him as a slave in a strange land. And how, seeing them
again after many years, he loved them beyond measure, but he
harassed and tormented them in love. He left them at last not able
to bear the suffering of his heart, flung himself on his bed and
wept. Then, wiping his tears away, he went out to them joyful and
told them, "Brothers, I am your brother Joseph" Let him read them
further how happy old Jacob was on learning that his darling boy
was still alive, and how he went to Egypt leaving his own country,
and died in a foreign land, bequeathing his great prophecy that had
lain mysteriously hidden in his meek and timid heart all his life,
that from his offspring, from Judah, will come the great hope of
the world, the Messiah and Saviour.
