"You sit down, too," said he.

I sat down. We sat still for two minutes; he looked intently at
me and suddenly smiled. I remembered that- then he got up, embraced
me warmly and kissed me.

"Remember," he said, "how I came to you a second time. Do you
hear, remember it!"

And he went out.

"To-morrow," I thought.

And so it was. I did not know that evening that the next day was
his birthday. I had not been out for the last few days, so I had no
chance of hearing it from anyone. On that day he always had a great
gathering, everyone in the town went to it. It was the same this
time. After dinner he walked into the middle of the room, with a
paper in his hand- a formal declaration to the chief of his
department who was present. This declaration he read aloud to the
whole assembly. It contained a full account of the crime, in every
detail.

"I cut myself off from men as a monster. God has visited me," he
said in conclusion. "I want to suffer for my sin!"

Then he brought out and laid on the table all the things he had
been keeping for fourteen years, that he thought would prove his
crime, the jewels belonging to the murdered woman which he had
stolen to divert suspicion, a cross and a locket taken from her
neck with a portrait of her betrothed in the locket, her notebook
and two letters; one from her betrothed, telling her that he would
soon be with her, and her unfinished answer left on the table to be
sent off next day. He carried off these two letters- what for? Why
had he kept them for fourteen years afterwards instead of
destroying them as evidence against him?

And this is what happened: everyone was amazed and horrified,
everyone refused to believe it and thought that he was deranged,
though all listened with intense curiosity. A few days later it was
fully decided and agreed in every house that the unhappy man was
mad. The legal authorities could not refuse to take the case up,
but they too dropped it. Though the trinkets and letters made them
ponder, they decided that even if they did turn out to be
authentic, no charge could be based on those alone. Besides, she
might have given him those things as a friend, or asked him to take
care of them for her. I heard afterwards, however, that the
genuineness of the things was proved by the friends and relations
of the murdered woman, and that there was no doubt about them. Yet
nothing was destined to come of it, after all.

Five days later, all had heard that he was ill and that his life
was in danger. The nature of his illness I can't explain; they said
it was an affection of the heart. But it became known that the
doctors had been induced by his wife to investigate his mental
condition also, and had come to the conclusion that it was a case
of insanity. I betrayed nothing, though people ran to question me.
But when I wanted to visit him, I was for a long while forbidden to
do so, above all by his wife.

"It's you who have caused his illness," she said to me; "he was
always gloomy, but for the last year people noticed that he was
peculiarly excited and did strange things, and now you have been
the ruin of him. Your preaching has brought him to this; for the
last month he was always with you."
