"What do I care for your faith?" Miusov was on the point of
shouting, but he suddenly checked himself, and said with contempt,
"You defile everything you touch."

The elder suddenly rose from his seat. "Excuse me, gentlemen,
for leaving you a few minutes," he said, addressing all his guests.
"I have visitors awaiting me who arrived before you. But don't you
tell lies all the same," he added, turning to Fyodor Pavlovitch
with a good-humoured face. He went out of the cell. Alyosha and the
novice flew to escort him down the steps. Alyosha was breathless:
he was glad to get away, but he was glad, too, that the elder was
good-humoured and not offended. Father Zossima was going towards
the portico to bless the people waiting for him there. But Fyodor
Pavlovitch persisted, in stopping him at the door of the cell.

"Blessed man!" he cried, with feeling. "Allow me to kiss your
hand once more. Yes, with you I could still talk, I could still get
on. Do you think I always lie and play the fool like this? Believe
me, I have been acting like this all the time on purpose to try
you. I have been testing you all the time to see whether I could
get on with you. Is there room for my humility beside your pride? I
am ready to give you a testimonial that one can get on with you!
But now, I'll be quiet; I will keep quiet all the time. I'll sit in
a chair and hold my tongue. Now it is for you to speak, Pyotr
Alexandrovitch. You are the principal person left now- for ten
minutes."




