"Three thousand? Roubles? Oh, no, I haven't got three thousand,"
Madame Hohlakov announced with serene amazement. Mitya was
stupefied.

"Why, you said just now you saidâ€¦ you said it was as good as in
my hands-"

"Oh, no, you misunderstood me, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. In that case
you misunderstood me. I was talking of the gold mines. It's true I
promised you more, infinitely more than three thousand, I remember
it all now, but I was referring to the gold mines."

"But the money? The three thousand?" Mitya exclaimed,
awkwardly.

"Oh, if you meant money, I haven't any. I haven't a penny,
Dmitri Fyodorovitch. I'm quarrelling with my steward about it, and
I've just borrowed five hundred roubles from Miusov, myself. No,
no, I've no money. And, do you know, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, if I had,
I wouldn't give it to you. In the first place I never lend money.
Lending money means losing friends. And I wouldn't give it to you
particularly. I wouldn't give it you, because I like you and want
to save you, for all you need is the gold mines, the gold mines,
the gold mines!"

"Oh, the devil!" roared Mitya, and with all his might brought
his fist down on the table.

"Aie! Aie!" cried Madame Hohlakov, alarmed, and she flew to the
other end of the drawing-room.

Mitya spat on the ground, and strode rapidly out of the room,
out of the house, into the street, into the darkness! He walked
like one possessed, and beating himself on the breast, on the spot
where he had struck himself two days previously, before Alyosha,
the last time he saw him in the dark, on the road. What those blows
upon his breast signified, on that spot, and what he meant by it-
that was, for the time, a secret which was known to no one in the
world, and had not been told even to Alyosha. But that secret meant
for him more than disgrace; it meant ruin, suicide. So he had
determined, if he did not get hold of the three thousand that would
pay his debt to Katerina Ivanovna, and so remove from his breast,
from that spot on his breast, the shame he carried upon it, that
weighed on his conscience. All this will be fully explained to the
reader later on, but now that his last hope had vanished, this man,
so strong in appearance, burst out crying like a little child a few
steps from the Hohlakovs' house. He walked on, and not knowing what
he was doing, wiped away his tears with his fist. In this way he
reached the square, and suddenly became aware that he had stumbled
against something. He heard a piercing wail from an old woman whom
he had almost knocked down.

"Good Lord, you've nearly killed me! Why don't you look where
you're going, scapegrace?"

"Why, it's you!" cried Mitya, recognising the old woman in the
dark. It was the old servant who waited on Samsonov, whom Mitya had
particularly noticed the day before.

"And who are you, my good sir?" said the old woman in quite a
different voice. "I don't know you in the dark."
