
"He keeps talking nonsense, and we were all laughing," Kalgonov
began suddenly, as though divining his thought, and pointing to
Maximov.

Mitya immediately stared at Kalgonov and then at Maximov

"He's talking nonsense?" he laughed, his short, wooden laugh,
seeming suddenly delighted at something- "ha ha!"

"Yes. Would you believe it, he will have it that all our cavalry
officers in the twenties married Polish women. That's awful rot,
isn't it?"

"Polish women?" repeated Mitya, perfectly ecstatic.

Kalgonov was well aware of Mitya's attitude to Grushenka, and he
guessed about the Pole, too, but that did not so much interest him,
perhaps did not interest him at all; what he was interested in was
Maximov. He had come here with Maximov by chance, and he met the
Poles here at the inn for the first time in his life. Grushenka he
knew before, and had once been with someone to see her; but she had
not taken to him. But here she looked at him very affectionately:
before Mitya's arrival, she had been making much of him, but he
seemed somehow to be unmoved by it. He was a boy, not over twenty,
dressed like a dandy, with a very charming fair-skinned face, and
splendid thick, fair hair. From his fair face looked out beautiful
pale blue eyes, with an intelligent and sometimes even deep
expression, beyond his age indeed, although the young man sometimes
looked and talked quite like a child, and was not at all ashamed of
it, even when he was aware of it himself. As a rule he was very
wilful, even capricious, though always friendly. Sometimes there
was something fixed and obstinate in his expression. He would look
at you and listen, seeming all the while to be persistently
dreaming over something else. Often he was listless and lazy; at
other times he would grow excited, sometimes, apparently, over the
most trivial matters.

"Only imagine, I've been taking him about with me for the last
four days," he went on, indolently drawling his words, quite
naturally though, without the slightest affectation. "Ever since
your brother, do you remember, shoved him off the carriage and sent
him flying. That made me take an interest in him at the time, and I
took him into the country, but he keeps talking such rot I'm
ashamed to be with him. I'm taking him back."

"The gentleman has not seen Polish ladies, and says what is
impossible," the Pole with the pipe observed to Maximov.

He spoke Russian fairly well, much better, anyway, than he
pretended. If he used Russian words, he always distorted them into
a Polish form.

"But I was married to a Polish lady myself," tittered
Maximov.

