"Begin, panie," Mitya assented, pulling his notes out of his
pocket, and laying two hundred-rouble notes on the table. "I want
to lose a lot to you. Take your cards. Make the bank."

"We'll have cards from the landlord, panie," said the little
Pole, gravely and emphatically.

"That's much the best way," chimed in Pan Vrublevsky.

"From the landlord? Very good, I understand, let's get them from
him. Cards!" Mitya shouted to the landlord.

The landlord brought in a new, unopened pack, and informed Mitya
that the girls were getting ready, and that the Jews with the
cymbals would most likely be here soon; but the cart with the
provisions had not yet arrived. Mitya jumped up from the table and
ran into the next room to give orders, but only three girls had
arrived, and Marya was not there yet. And he did not know himself
what orders to give and why he had run out. He only told them to
take out of the box the presents for the girls, the sweets, the
toffee and the fondants. "And vodka for Andrey, vodka for Andrey!"
he cried in haste. "I was rude to Andrey!"

Suddenly Maximov, who had followed him out, touched him on the
shoulder.

"Give me five roubles," he whispered to Mitya. "I'll stake
something at faro, too, he he!"

"Capital! Splendid! Take ten, here!"

Again he took all the notes out of his pocket and picked out one
for ten roubles. "And if you lose that, come again, come
again."

"Very good," Maximov whispered joyfully, and he ran back again.
Mitya, too, returned, apologising for having kept them waiting. The
Poles had already sat down, and opened the pack. They looked much
more amiable, almost cordial. The Pole on the sofa had lighted
another pipe and was preparing to throw. He wore an air of
solemnity.

"To your places, gentlemen," cried Pan Vrublevsky.
