"Yes. But could I endure such a life for long?" the lady went on
fervently, almost frantically. "That's the chief question- that's
my most agonising question. I shut my eyes and ask myself, 'Would
you persevere long on that path? And if the patient whose wounds
you are washing did not meet you with gratitude, but worried you
with his whims, without valuing or remarking your charitable
services, began abusing you and rudely commanding you, and
complaining to the superior authorities of you (which often happens
when people are in great suffering)- what then? Would you persevere
in your love, or not?' And do you know, I came with horror to the
conclusion that, if anything could dissipate my love to humanity,
it would be ingratitude. In short, I am a hired servant, I expect
my payment at once- that is, praise, and the repayment of love with
love. Otherwise I am incapable of loving anyone.'"

She was in a very paroxysm of self-castigation, and, concluding,
she looked with defiant resolution at the elder.

"It's just the same story as a doctor once told me," observed
the elder. "He was a man getting on in years, and undoubtedly
clever. He spoke as frankly as you, though in jest, in bitter jest.
'I love humanity,' he said, 'but I wonder at myself. The more I
love humanity in general, the less I love man in particular. In my
dreams,' he said, 'I have often come to making enthusiastic schemes
for the service of humanity, and perhaps I might actually have
faced crucifixion if it had been suddenly necessary; and yet I am
incapable of living in the same room with anyone for two days
together, as I know by experience. As soon as anyone is near me,
his personality disturbs my self-complacency and restricts my
freedom. In twenty-four hours I begin to hate the best of men: one
because he's too long over his dinner; another because he has a
cold and keeps on blowing his nose. I become hostile to people the
moment they come close to me. But it has always happened that the
more I detest men individually the more ardent becomes my love for
humanity.'

"But what's to be done? What can one do in such a case? Must one
despair?"

"No. It is enough that you are distressed at it. Do what you
can, and it will be reckoned unto you. Much is done already in you
since you can so deeply and sincerely know yourself. If you have
been talking to me so sincerely, simply to gain approbation for
your frankness, as you did from me just now, then, of course, you
will not attain to anything in the achievement of real love; it
will all get no further than dreams, and your whole life will slip
away like a phantom. In that case you will naturally cease to think
of the future life too, and will of yourself grow calmer after a
fashion in the end."

"You have crushed me! Only now, as you speak, I understand that
I was really only seeking your approbation for my sincerity when I
told you I could not endure ingratitude. You have revealed me to
myself. You have seen through me and explained me to myself

"Are you speaking the truth? Well, now, after such a confession,
I believe that you are sincere and good at heart. If you do not
attain happiness, always remember that you are on the right road,
and try not to leave it. Above all, avoid falsehood, every kind of
falsehood, especially falseness to yourself. Watch over your own
deceitfulness and look into it every hour, every minute. Avoid
being scornful, both to others and to yourself. What seems to you
bad within you will grow purer from the very fact of your observing
it in yourself. Avoid fear, too, though fear is only the
consequence of every sort of falsehood. Never be frightened at your
own faint-heartedness in attaining love. Don't be frightened
overmuch even at your evil actions. I am sorry I can say nothing
more consoling to you, for love in action is a harsh and dreadful
thing compared with love in dreams. Love in dreams is greedy for
immediate action, rapidly performed and in the sight of all. Men
will even give their lives if only the ordeal does not last long
but is soon over, with all looking on and applauding as though on
the stage. But active love is labour and fortitude, and for some
people too, perhaps, a complete science. But I predict that just
when you see with horror that in spite of all your efforts you are
getting farther from your goal instead of nearer to it- at that
very moment I predict that you will reach it and behold clearly the
miraculous power of the Lord who has been all the time loving and
mysteriously guiding you. Forgive me for not being able to stay
longer with you. They are waiting for me. Good-bye."

The lady was weeping.

"Lise, Lise! Bless her- bless her!" she cried, starting up
suddenly.

"She does not deserve to be loved. I have seen her naughtiness
all along," the elder said jestingly. "Why have you been laughing
at Alexey?"

Lise had in fact been occupied in mocking at him all the time.
She had noticed before that Alyosha was shy and tried not to look
at her, and she found this extremely amusing. She waited intently
to catch his eye. Alyosha, unable to endure her persistent stare,
was irresistibly and suddenly drawn to glance at her, and at once
she smiled triumphantly in his face. Alyosha was even more
disconcerted and vexed. At last he turned away from her altogether
and hid behind the elder's back. After a few minutes, drawn by the
same irresistible force, he turned again to see whether he was
being looked at or not, and found Lise almost hanging out of her
chair to peep sideways at him, eagerly waiting for him to look.
Catching his eye, she laughed so that the elder could not help
saying, "Why do you make fun of him like that, naughty girl?"
