
Mitya dropped his eyes and was a long time silent.

"My story, gentlemen? Well, was like this," he began softly.
"Whether it was like this," he began softly. "Whether it was
someone's tears, or my mother prayed to God, or a good angel kissed
me at that instant, I don't know. But the devil was conquered. I
rushed from the window and ran to the fence. My father was alarmed
and, for the first time, he saw me then, cried out, and sprang back
from the window. I remember that very well. I ran across the garden
to the fenceâ€¦ and there Grigory caught me, when I was sitting on
the fence."

At that point he raised his eyes at last and looked at his
listeners. They seemed to be staring at him with perfectly
unruffled attention. A sort of paroxysm of indignation seized on
Mitya's soul.

"Why, you're laughing at me at this moment, gentlemen!" he broke
off suddenly.

"What makes you think that?" observed Nikolay Parfenovitch.

"You don't believe one word- that's why! I understand, of
course, that I have come to the vital point. The old man's lying
there now with his skull broken, while I- after dramatically
describing how I wanted to kill him, and how I snatched up the
pestle- I suddenly run away from the window. A romance! Poetry! As
though one could believe a fellow on his word. Ha ha! You are
scoffers, gentlemen!"

And he swung round on his chair so that it creaked.

"And did you notice," asked the prosecutor suddenly, as though
not observing Mitya's excitement, "did you notice when you ran away
from the window, whether the door into the garden was open?"

"No, it was not open."

"It was not?"

