


Chapter

6
The Prosecutor Catches Mitya


SOMETHING utterly unexpected and amazing to Mitya followed. He
could never, even a minute before, have conceived that anyone could
behave like that to him, Mitya Karamazov. What was worst of all,
there was something humiliating in it, and on their side something
"supercilious and scornful." It was nothing to take off his coat,
but he was asked to undress further, or rather not asked but
"commanded," he quite understood that. From pride and contempt he
submitted without a word. Several peasants accompanied the lawyers
and remained on the same side of the curtain. "To be ready if force
is required," thought Mitya, "and perhaps for some other reason,
too."

"Well, must I take off my shirt, too?" he asked sharply, but
Nikolay Parfenovitch did not answer. He was busily engaged with the
prosecutor in examining the coat, the trousers, the waistcoat and
the cap; and it was evident that they were both much interested in
the scrutiny. "They make no bones about it," thought Mitya, "they
don't keep up the most elementary politeness."

"I ask you for the second time- need I take off my shirt or
not?" he said, still more sharply and irritably.

"Don't trouble yourself. We will tell you what to do," Nikolay
Parfenovitch said, and his voice was positively peremptory, or so
it seemed to Mitya.

Meantime a consultation was going on in undertones between the
lawyers. There turned out to be on the coat, especially on the left
side at the back, a huge patch of blood, dry, and still stiff.
There were bloodstains on the trousers, too. Nikolay Parfenovitch,
moreover, in the presence of the peasant witnesses, passed his
fingers along the collar, the cuffs, and all the seams of the coat
and trousers, obviously looking for something- money, of course. He
didn't even hide from Mitya his suspicion that he was capable of
sewing money up in his clothes.

"He treats me not as an officer but as a thief," Mitya muttered
to himself. They communicated their ideas to one another with
amazing frankness. The secretary, for instance, who was also behind
the curtain, fussing about and listening, called Nikolay
Parfenovitch's attention to the cap, which they were also
fingering.

"You remember Gridyenko, the copying clerk," observed the
secretary. "Last summer he received the wages of the whole office,
and pretended to have lost the money when he was drunk. And where
was it found? Why, in just such pipings in his cap. The
hundred-rouble notes were screwed up in little rolls and sewed in
the piping."
