
"Come now, is that so, Trifon Borissovitch?" replied Mitya.
"Surely I didn't declare so positively that I'd brought three
thousand?"

"You did say so, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. You said it before Andrey.
Andrey himself is still here. Send for him. And in the hall, when
you were treating the chorus, you shouted straight out that you
would leave your sixth thousand here- that is, with what you spent
before, we must understand. Stepan and Semyon heard it, and Pyotr
Fomitch Kalganov, too, was standing beside you at the time. Maybe
he'd remember itâ€¦ "

The evidence as to the "sixth" thousand made an extraordinary
impression on the two lawyers. They were delighted with this new
mode of reckoning; three and three made six, three thousand then
and three now made six, that was clear.

They questioned all the peasants suggested by Trifon
Borissovitch, Stepan and Semyon, the driver Andrey, and Kalganov.
The peasants and the driver unhesitatingly confirmed Trifon
Borissovitch's evidence. They noted down, with particular care,
Andrey's account of the conversation he had had with Mitya on the
road: "'Where,' says he, 'am I, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, going, to
heaven or to hell, and shall I be forgiven in the next world or
not?'" The psychological Ippolit Kirillovitch heard this with a
subtle smile, and ended by recommending that these remarks as to
where Dmitri Fyodorovitch would go should be "included in the
case."

Kalganov, when called, came in reluctantly, frowning and
ill-humoured, and he spoke to the lawyers as though he had never
met them before in his life, though they were acquaintances whom he
had been meeting every day for a long time past. He began by saying
that "he knew nothing about it and didn't want to." But it appeared
that he had heard of the" sixth" thousand, and he admitted that he
had been standing close by at the moment. As far as he could see he
"didn't know" how much money Mitya had in his hands. He affirmed
that the Poles had cheated at cards. In reply to reiterated
questions he stated that, after the Poles had been turned out,
Mitya's position with Agrafena Alexandrovna had certainly improved,
and that she had said that she loved him. He spoke of Agrafena
Alexandrovna with reserve and respect, as though she had been a
lady of the best society, and did not once allow himself to call
her Grushenka. In spite of the young man's obvious repugnance at
giving evidence, Ippolit Kirillovitch examined him at great length,
and only from him learnt all the details of what made up Mitya's
"romance," so to say, on that night. Mitya did not once pull
Kalganov up. At last they let the young man go, and he left the
room with unconcealed indignation.

The Poles, too, were examined. Though they had gone to bed in
their room, they had not slept all night, and on the arrival of the
police officers they hastily dressed and got ready, realising that
they would certainly be sent for. They gave their evidence with
dignity, though not without some uneasiness. The little Pole turned
out to be a retired official of the twelfth class, who had served
in Siberia as a veterinary surgeon. His name was Mussyalovitch. Pan
Vrubelvsky turned out to be an uncertificated dentist. Although
Nikolay Parfenovitch asked them questions on entering the room they
both addressed their answers to Mihail Makarovitch, who was
standing on one side, taking him in their ignorance for the most
important person and in command, and addressed him at every word as
"Pan Colonel." Only after several reproofs from Mihail Makarovitch
himself, they grasped that they had to address their answers to
Nikolay Parfenovitch only. It turned out that they could speak
Russian quite correctly except for their accent in some words. Of
his relations with Grushenka, past and present, Pan Mussyalovitch
spoke proudly and warmly, so that Mitya was roused at once and
declared that he would not allow the "scoundrel" to speak like that
in his presence! Pan Mussyalovitch at once called attention to the
word "scoundrel," and begged that it should be put down in the
protocol. Mitya fumed with rage.

"He's a scoundrel! A scoundrel! You can put that down. And put
down, too, that, in spite of the protocol I still declare that he's
a scoundrel!" he cried.

Though Nikolay Parfenovitch did insert this in the protocol, he
showed the most praiseworthy tact and management. After sternly
reprimanding Mitya, he cut short all further inquiry into the
romantic aspect of the case, and hastened to pass to what was
essential. One piece of evidence given by the Poles roused special
interest in the lawyers: that was how, in that very room, Mitya had
tried to buy off Pan Mussyalovitch, and had offered him three
thousand roubles to resign his claims, seven hundred roubles down,
and the remaining two thousand three hundred "to be paid next day
in the town." He had sworn at the time that he had not the whole
sum with him at Mokroe, but that his money was in the town. Mitya
observed hotly that he had not said that he would be sure to pay
him the remainder next day in the town. But Pan Vrublevsky
confirmed the statement, and Mitya, after thinking for a moment
admitted, frowning, that it must have been as the Poles stated,
that he had been excited at the time, and might indeed have said
so.

The prosecutor positively pounced on this piece of evidence. It
seemed to establish for the prosecution (and they did, in fact,
base this deduction on it) that half, or a part of, the three
thousand that had come into Mitya's hands might really have been
left somewhere hidden in the town, or even, perhaps, somewhere
here, in Mokroe. This would explain the circumstance, so baffling
for the prosecution, that only eight hundred roubles were to be
found in Mitya's hands. This circumstance had been the one piece of
evidence which, insignificant as it was, had hitherto told, to some
extent, in Mitya's favour. Now this one piece of evidence in his
favour had broken down. In answer to the prosecutor's inquiry,
where he would have got the remaining two thousand three hundred
roubles, since he himself had denied having more than fifteen
hundred, Mitya confidently replied that he had meant to offer the
"little chap," not money, but a formal deed of conveyance of his
rights to the village of Tchermashnya, those rights which he had
already offered to Samsonov and Madame Hohlakov. The prosecutor
positively smiled at the "innocence of this subterfuge."

"And you imagine he would have accepted such a deed as a
substitute for two thousand three hundred roubles in cash?"

