


Chapter

9
They Carry Mitya Away


WHEN the protocol had been signed, Nikolay Parfenovitch turned
solemnly to the prisoner and read him the "Committal," setting
forth, that in such a year, on such a day, in such a place, the
investigating lawyer of such-and-such a district court, having
examined so-and-so (to wit, Mitya) accused of this and of that (all
the charges were carefully written out) and having considered that
the accused, not pleading guilty to the charges made against him,
had brought forward nothing in his defence, while the witnesses,
so-and-so, and so-and-so, and the circumstances such-and-such
testify against him, acting in accordance with such-and-such
articles of the Statute Book, and so on, has ruled, that, in order
to preclude so-and-so (Mitya) from all means of evading pursuit and
judgment, he be detained in such-and-such a prison, which he hereby
notifies to the accused and communicates a copy of this same
"Committal" to the deputy prosecutor, and so on, and so on.

In brief, Mitya was informed that he was, from that moment, a
prisoner, and that he would be driven at once to the town, and
there shut up in a very unpleasant place. Mitya listened
attentively, and only shrugged his shoulders.

"Well, gentlemen, I don't blame you. I'm ready… . I understand
that there's nothing else for you to do."

Nikolay Parfenovitch informed him gently that he would be
escorted at once by the rural police officer, Mavriky
Mavrikyevitch, who happened to be on the spot… .

"Stay," Mitya interrupted, suddenly, and impelled by
uncontrollable feeling he pronounced, addressing all in the
room:

"Gentlemen, we're all cruel, we're all monsters, we all make men
weep, and mothers, and babes at the breast, but of all, let it be
settled here, now, of all I am the lowest reptile! I've sworn to
amend, and every day I've done the same filthy things. I understand
now that such men as I need a blow, a blow of destiny to catch them
as with a noose, and bind them by a force from without. Never,
never should I have risen of myself! But the thunderbolt has
fallen. I accept the torture of accusation, and my public shame; I
want to suffer and by suffering I shall be purified. Perhaps I
shall be purified, gentlemen? But listen, for the last time, I am
not guilty of my father's blood. I accept my punishment, not
because I killed him, but because I meant to kill him, and perhaps
I really might have killed him. Still I mean to fight it out with
you. I warn you of that. I'll fight it out with you to the end, and
then God will decide. Good-bye, gentlemen, don't be vexed with me
for having shouted at you during the examination. Oh, I was still
such a fool then… . In another minute I shall be a prisoner, but
now, for the last time, as a free man, Dmitri Karamazov offers you
his hand. Saying good-bye to you, I say it to all men."

His voice quivered and he stretched out his hand, but Nikolay
Parfenovitch, who happened to stand nearest to him, with a sudden,
almost nervous movement, hid his hands behind his back. Mitya
instantly noticed this, and started. He let his outstretched hand
fall at once.
