
Dardanelov was a middle-aged bachelor, who had been passionately
in love with Madame Krassotkin for many years past, and had once
already, about a year previously, ventured, trembling with fear and
the delicacy of his sentiments, to offer her most respectfully his
hand in marriage. But she refused him resolutely, feeling that to
accept him would be an act of treachery to her son, though
Dardanelov had, to judge from certain mysterious symptoms, reason
for believing that he was not an object of aversion to the charming
but too chaste and tender-hearted widow. Kolya's mad prank seemed
to have broken the ice, and Dardanelov was rewarded for his
intercession by a suggestion of hope. The suggestion, it is true,
was a faint one, but then Dardanelov was such a paragon of purity
and delicacy that it was enough for the time being to make him
perfectly happy. He was fond of the boy, though he would have felt
it beneath him to try and win him over, and was severe and strict
with him in class. Kolya, too, kept him at a respectful distance.
He learned his lessons perfectly; he was second in his class, was
reserved with Dardanelov, and the whole class firmly believed that
Kolya was so good at universal history that he could "beat" even
Dardanelov. Kolya did indeed ask him the question, "Who founded
Troy?" to which Dardanelov had made a very vague reply, referring
to the movements and migrations of races, to the remoteness of the
period, to the mythical legends. But the question, "Who had founded
Troy?" that is, what individuals, he could not answer, and even for
some reason regarded the question as idle and frivolous. But the
boys remained convinced that Dardanelov did not know who founded
Troy. Kolya had read of the founders of Troy in Smaragdov, whose
history was among the books in his father's bookcase. In the end
all the boys became interested in the question, who it was that had
founded Troy, but Krassotkin would not tell his secret, and his
reputation for knowledge remained unshaken.

After the incident on the railway a certain change came over
Kolya's attitude to his mother. When Anna Fyodorovna (Madame
Krassotkin) heard of her son's exploit, she almost went out of her
mind with horror. She had such terrible attacks of hysterics,
lasting with intervals for several days, that Kolya, seriously
alarmed at last, promised on his honour that such pranks should
never be repeated. He swore on his knees before the holy image, and
swore by the memory of his father, at Madame Krassotkin's instance,
and the "manly" Kolya burst into tears like a boy of six. And all
that day the mother and son were constantly rushing into each
other's arms sobbing. Next day Kolya woke up as "unfeeling" as
before, but he had become more silent, more modest, sterner, and
more thoughtful.

Six weeks later, it is true, he got into another scrape, which
even brought his name to the ears of our Justice of the Peace, but
it was a scrape of quite another kind, amusing, foolish, and he did
not, as it turned out, take the leading part in it, but was only
implicated in it. But of this later. His mother still fretted and
trembled, but the more uneasy she became, the greater were the
hopes of Dardanelov. It must be noted that Kolya understood and
divined what was in Dardanelov's heart and, of course, despised him
profoundly for his "feelings"; he had in the past been so tactless
as to show this contempt before his mother, hinting vaguely that he
knew what Dardanelov was after. But from the time of the railway
incident his behaviour in this respect also was changed; he did not
allow himself the remotest allusion to the subject and began to
speak more respectfully of Dardanelov before his mother, which the
sensitive woman at once appreciated with boundless gratitude. But
at the slightest mention of Dardanelov by a visitor in Kolya's
presence, she would flush as pink as a rose. At such moments Kolya
would either stare out of the window scowling, or would investigate
the state of his boots, or would shout angrily for "Perezvon," the
big, shaggy, mangy dog, which he had picked up a month before,
brought home, and kept for some reason secretly indoors, not
showing him to any of his schoolfellows. He bullied him
frightfully, teaching him all sorts of tricks, so that the poor dog
howled for him whenever he was absent at school, and when he came
in, whined with delight, rushed about as if he were crazy, begged,
lay down on the ground pretending to be dead, and so on; in fact,
showed all the tricks he had taught him, not at the word of
command, but simply from the zeal of his excited and grateful
heart.

I have forgotten, by the way, to mention that Kolya Krassotkin
was the boy stabbed with a penknife by the boy already known to the
reader as the son of Captain Snegiryov. Ilusha had been defending
his father when the schoolboys jeered at him, shouting the nickname
"wisp of tow."




