
"Ah! if it were only Zhutchka!"

"That's impossible. Zhutchka's non-existent. Zhutchka is lost in
the mists of obscurity."

"Ah! couldn't we do this?" Smurov suddenly stood still. "You see
Ilusha says that Zhutchka was a shaggy, greyish, smoky-looking dog
like Perezvon. Couldn't you tell him this is Zhutchka, and he might
believe you?"

"Boy, shun a lie, that's one thing; even with a good object-
that's another. Above all, I hope you've not told them anything
about my coming."

"Heaven forbid! I know what I am about. But you won't comfort
him with Perezvon," said Smurov, with a sigh. "You know his father,
the captain, 'the wisp of tow,' told us that he was going to bring
him a real mastiff pup, with a black nose, to-day. He thinks that
would comfort Ilusha; but I doubt it."

"And how is Ilusha?"

"Ah, he is bad, very bad! I believe he's in consumption: he is
quite conscious, but his breathing! His breathing's gone wrong. The
other day he asked to have his boots on to be led round the room.
He tried to walk, but he couldn't stand. 'Ah, I told you before,
father,' he said, 'that those boots were no good. I could never
walk properly in them.' He fancied it was his boots that made him
stagger, but it was simply weakness, really. He won't live another
week. Herzenstube is looking after him. Now they are rich again-
they've got heaps of money.

"They are rogues."

"Who are rogues?"

"Doctors and the whole crew of quacks collectively, and also, of
course, individually. I don't believe in medicine. It's a useless
institution. I mean to go into all that. But what's that
sentimentality you've got up there? The whole class seems to be
there every day."

