
"Yes; but I don't think you will be able to go."

"I can sit up. Ah, you put me out! Ah! this trial, this savage
act, and then they are all going to Siberia, some are getting
married, and all this so quickly, so quickly, everything's
changing, and at last- nothing. All grow old and have death to look
forward to. Well, so be it! I am weary. This Katya, cette charmante
personne, has disappointed all my hopes. Now she is going to follow
one of your brothers to Siberia, and your other brother is going to
follow her, and will live in the nearest town, and they will all
torment one another. It drives me out of my mind. Worst of all- the
publicity. The story has been told a million times over in all the
papers in Moscow and Petersburg. Ah! yes, would you believe it,
there's a paragraph that I was 'a dear friend' of your brother's- ,
I can't repeat the horrid word. just fancy, just fancy!"

"Impossible! Where was the paragraph? What did it say?"

"I'll show you directly. I got the paper and read it yesterday.
Here, in the Petersburg paper Gossip. The paper began coming out
this year. I am awfully fond of gossip, and I take it in, and now
it pays me out- this is what gossip comes to! Here it is, here,
this passage. Read it."

And she handed Alyosha a sheet of newspaper which had been under
her pillow.

It was not exactly that she was upset, she seemed overwhelmed
and perhaps everything really was mixed up in a tangle in her head.
The paragraph was very typical, and must have been a great shock to
her, but, fortunately perhaps, she was unable to keep her mind
fixed on any one subject at that moment, and so might race off in a
minute to something else and quite forget the newspaper.

Alyosha was well aware that the story of the terrible case had
spread all over Russia. And, good heavens! what wild rumours about
his brother, about the Karamazovs, and about himself he had read in
the course of those two months, among other equally credible items!
One paper had even stated that he had gone into a monastery and
become a monk, in horror at his brother's crime. Another
contradicted this, and stated that he and his elder, Father
Zossima, had broken into the monastery chest and "made tracks from
the monastery." The present paragraph in the paper Gossip was under
the heading, "The Karamazov Case at Skotoprigonyevsk." (That, alas!
was the name of our little town. I had hitherto kept it concealed.)
It was brief, and Madame Hohlakov was not directly mentioned in it.
No names appeared, in fact. It was merely stated that the criminal,
whose approaching trial was making such a sensation- retired army
captain, an idle swaggerer, and reactionary bully- was continually
involved in amorous intrigues, and particularly popular with
certain ladies "who were pining in solitude." One such lady, a
pining widow, who tried to seem young though she had a grown-up
daughter, was so fascinated by him that only two hours before the
crime she offered him three thousand roubles, on condition that he
would elope with her to the gold mines. But the criminal, counting
on escaping punishment, had preferred to murder his father to get
the three thousand rather than go off to Siberia with the
middle-aged charms of his pining lady. This playful paragraph
finished, of course, with an outburst of generous indignation at
the wickedness of parricide and at the lately abolished institution
of serfdom. Reading it with curiosity, Alyosha folded up the paper
and handed it back to Madame Hohlakov.

"Well, that must be me," she hurried on again. "Of course I am
meant. Scarcely more than an hour before, I suggested gold mines to
him, and here they talk of 'middle-aged charms' as though that were
my motive! He writes that out of spite! God Almighty forgive him
for the middle-aged charms, as I forgive him! You know it's -Do you
know who it is? It's your friend Rakitin."

"Perhaps," said Alyosha, "though I've heard nothing about
it."

"It's he, it's he! No 'perhaps' about it. You know I turned him
out of the houseâ€¦ . You know all that story, don't you?"

