
When Ivan read this "document" he was convinced. So then it was
his brother, not Smerdyakov. And if not Smerdyakov, then not he,
Ivan. This letter at once assumed in his eyes the aspect of a
logical proof. There could be no longer the slightest doubt of
Mitya's guilt. The suspicion never occurred to Ivan, by the way,
that Mitya might have committed the murder in conjunction with
Smerdyakov, and, indeed, such a theory did not fit in with the
facts. Ivan was completely reassured. The next morning he only
thought of Smerdyakov and his gibes with contempt. A few days later
he positively wondered how he could have been so horribly
distressed at his suspicions. He resolved to dismiss him with
contempt and forget him. So passed a month. He made no further
inquiry about Smerdyakov, but twice he happened to hear that he was
very ill and out of his mind.

"He'll end in madness," the young doctor Varvinsky observed
about him, and Ivan remembered this. During the last week of that
month Ivan himself began to feel very ill. He went to consult the
Moscow doctor who had been sent for by Katerina Ivanovna just
before the trial. And just at that time his relations with Katerina
Ivanovna became acutely strained. They were like two enemies in
love with one another. Katerina Ivanovna's "returns" to Mitya, that
is, her brief but violent revulsions of feeling in his favour,
drove Ivan to perfect frenzy. Strange to say, until that last scene
described above, when Alyosha came from Mitya to Katerina Ivanovna,
Ivan had never once, during that month, heard her express a doubt
of Mitya's guilt, in spite of those "returns" that were so hateful
to him. It is remarkable, too, that while he felt that he hated
Mitya more and more every day, he realised that it was not on
account of Katya's "returns" that he hated him, but just because he
was the murderer of his father. He was conscious of this and fully
recognised it to himself

Nevertheless, he went to see Mitya ten days before the trial and
proposed to him a plan of escape- a plan he had obviously thought
over a long time. He was partly impelled to do this by a sore place
still left in his heart from a phrase of Smerdyakov's, that it was
to his, Ivan's, advantage that his brother should be convicted, as
that would increase his inheritance and Alyosha's from forty to
sixty thousand roubles. He determined to sacrifice thirty thousand
on arranging Mitya's escape. On his return from seeing him, he was
very mournful and dispirited; he suddenly began to feel that he was
anxious for Mitya's escape, not only to heal that sore place by
sacrificing thirty thousand, but for another reason. "Is it because
I am as much a murderer at heart?" he asked himself. Something very
deep down seemed burning and rankling in his soul. His pride above
all suffered cruelly all that month. But of that laterâ€¦ .

When, after his conversation with Alyosha, Ivan suddenly decided
with his hand on the bell of his lodging to go to Smerdyakov, he
obeyed a sudden and peculiar impulse of indignation. He suddenly
remembered how Katerina Ivanovna had only just cried out to him in
Alyosha's presence: "It was you, you, persuaded me of his" (that
is, Mitya's) "guilt!" Ivan was thunderstruck when he recalled it.
He had never once tried to persuade her that Mitya was the
murderer; on the contrary, he had suspected himself in her
presence, that time when he came back from Smerdyakov. It was she,
she, who had produced that "document" and proved his brother's
guilt. And now she suddenly exclaimed: "I've been at Smerdyakov's
myself!" When had she been there? Ivan had known nothing of it. So
she was not at all so sure of Mitya's guilt! And what could
Smerdyakov have told her? What, what, had he said to her? His heart
burned with violent anger. He could not understand how he could,
half an hour before, have let those words pass and not have cried
out at the moment. He let go of the bell and rushed off to
Smerdyakov. "I shall kill him, perhaps, this time," he thought on
the way.




