"I saw three thousand as clear as a penny in his hands, I saw it
with my own eyes; I should think I ought to know how to reckon
money," cried Trifon Borissovitch, doing his best to satisfy "his
betters."

When Fetyukovitch had to cross-examine him, he scarcely tried to
refute his evidence, but began asking him about an incident at the
first carousal at Mokroe, a month before the arrest, when Timofey
and another peasant called Akim had picked up on the floor in the
passage a hundred roubles dropped by Mitya when he was drunk, and
had given them to Trifon Borissovitch and received a rouble each
from him for doing so. "Well," asked the lawyer," did you give that
hundred roubles back to Mr. Karamazov?" Trifon Borissovitch
shuffled in vainâ€¦ . He was obliged, after the peasants had been
examined, to admit the finding of the hundred roubles, only adding
that he had religiously returned it all to Dmitri Fyodorovitch "in
perfect honesty, and it's only because his honour was in liquor at
the time, he wouldn't remember it." But, as he had denied the
incident of the hundred roubles till the peasants had been called
to prove it, his evidence as to returning the money to Mitya was
naturally regarded with great suspicion. So one of the most
dangerous witnesses brought forward by the prosecution was again
discredited.

The same thing happened with the Poles. They took up an attitude
of pride and independence; they vociferated loudly that they had
both been in the service of the Crown, and that "Pan Mitya" had
offered them three thousand "to buy their honour," and that they
had seen a large sum of money in his hands. Pan Mussyalovitch
introduced a terrible number of Polish words into his sentences,
and seeing that this only increased his consequence in the eyes of
the President and the prosecutor, grew more and more pompous, and
ended by talking in Polish altogether. But Fetyukovitch caught
them, too, in his snares. Trifon Borissovitch, recalled, was
forced, in spite of his evasions, to admit that Pan Vrublevsky had
substituted another pack of cards for the one he had provided, and
that Pan Mussyalovitch had cheated during the game. Kalgonov
confirmed this, and both the Poles left the witness-box with
damaged reputations, amidst laughter from the public.

Then exactly the same thing happened with almost all the most
dangerous witnesses. Fetyukovitch succeeded in casting a slur on
all of them, and dismissing them with a certain derision. The
lawyers and experts were lost in admiration, and were only at a
loss to understand what good purpose could be served by it, for
all, I repeat, felt that the case for the prosecution could not be
refuted, but was growing more and more tragically overwhelming. But
from the confidence of the "great magician" they saw that he was
serene, and they waited, feeling that "such a man" had not come
from Petersburg for nothing, and that he was not a man to return
unsuccessful.




