"Oh yes, I'd forgotten she was a relation of yours."

"A relation! That Grushenka a relation of mine!" cried Rakitin,
turning crimson. "Are you mad? You're out of your mind!"

"Why, isn't she a relation of yours? I heard so."

"Where can you have heard it? You Karamazovs brag of being an
ancient, noble family, though your father used to run about playing
the buffoon at other men's tables, and was only admitted to the
kitchen as a favour. I may be only a priest's son, and dirt in the
eyes of noblemen like you, but don't insult me so lightly and
wantonly. I have a sense of honour, too, Alexey Fyodorovitch, I
couldn't be a relation of Grushenka, a common harlot. I beg you to
understand that!"

Rakitin was intensely irritated.

"Forgive me, for goodness' sake, I had no idea… besides… how can
you call her a harlot? Is she… that sort of woman?" Alyosha flushed
suddenly. "I tell you again, I heard that she was a relation of
yours. You often go to see her, and you told me yourself you're not
her lover. I never dreamed that you of all people had such contempt
for her! Does she really deserve it?"

"I may have reasons of my own for visiting her. That's not your
business. But as for relationship, your brother, or even your
father, is more likely to make her yours than mine. Well, here we
are. You'd better go to the kitchen. Hullo! what's wrong, what is
it? Are we late? They can't have finished dinner so soon! Have the
Karamazovs been making trouble again? No doubt they have. Here's
your father and your brother Ivan after him. They've broken out
from the Father Superior's. And look, Father Isidor's shouting out
something after them from the steps. And your father's shouting and
waving his arms. I expect he's swearing. Bah, and there goes Miusov
driving away in his carriage. You see, he's going. And there's old
Maximov running!- there must have been a row. There can't have been
any dinner. Surely they've not been beating the Father Superior! Or
have they, perhaps, been beaten? It would serve them right!"

There was reason for Rakitin's exclamations. There had been a
scandalous, an unprecedented scene. It had all come from the
impulse of a moment.




