
"You see, gentlemen of the jury, on the night of the murder,
there were five persons in Fyodor Pavlovitch's- Fyodor Pavlovitch
himself (but he did not kill himself, that's evident); then his
servant, Grigory, but he was almost killed himself; the third
person was Grigory's wife, Marfa Ignatyevna, but it would be simply
shameful to imagine her murdering her master. Two persons are left-
the prisoner and Smerdyakov. But, if we are to believe the
prisoner's statement that he is not the murderer, then Smerdyakov
must have been, for there is no other alternative, no one else can
be found. That is what accounts for the artful, astounding
accusation against the unhappy idiot who committed suicide
yesterday. Had a shadow of suspicion rested on anyone else, had
there been any sixth person, I am persuaded that even the prisoner
would have been ashamed to accuse Smerdyakov, and would have
accused that sixth person, for to charge Smerdyakov with that
murder is perfectly absurd.

"Gentlemen, let us lay aside psychology, let us lay aside
medicine, let us even lay aside logic, let us turn only to the
facts and see what the facts tell us. If Smerdyakov killed him, how
did he do it? Alone or with the assistance of the prisoner? Let us
consider the first alternative- that he did it alone. If he had
killed him it must have been with some object, for some advantage
to himself. But not having a shadow of the motive that the prisoner
had for the murder- hatred, jealousy, and so on- Smerdyakov could
only have murdered him for the sake of gain, in order to
appropriate the three thousand roubles he had seen his master put
in the envelope. And yet he tells another person- and a person most
closely interested, that is, the prisoner- everything about the
money and the signals, where the envelope lay, what was written on
it, what it was tied up with, and, above all, told him of those
signals by which he could enter the house. Did he do this simply to
betray himself, or to invite to the same enterprise one who would
be anxious to get that envelope for himself? 'Yes,' I shall be
told, 'but he betrayed it from fear.' But how do you explain this?
A man who could conceive such an audacious, savage act, and carry
it out, tells facts which are known to no one else in the world,
and which, if he held his tongue, no one would ever have
guessed!

"No, however cowardly he might be, if he had plotted such a
crime, nothing would have induced him to tell anyone about the
envelope and the signals, for that was as good as betraying himself
beforehand. He would have invented something, he would have told
some lie if he had been forced to give information, but he would
have been silent about that. For, on the other hand, if he had said
nothing about the money, but had committed the murder and stolen
the money, no one in the world could have charged him with murder
for the sake of robbery, since no one but he had seen the money, no
one but he knew of its existence in the house. Even if he had been
accused of the murder, it could only have been thought that he had
committed it from some other motive. But since no one had observed
any such motive in him beforehand, and everyone saw, on the
contrary, that his master was fond of him and honoured him with his
confidence, he would, of course, have been the last to be
suspected. People would have suspected first the man who had a
motive, a man who had himself declared he had such motives, who had
made no secret of it; they would, in fact, have suspected the son
of the murdered man, Dmitri Fyodorovitch. Had Smerdyakov killed and
robbed him, and the son been accused of it, that would, of course,
have suited Smerdyakov. Yet are we to believe that, though plotting
the murder, he told that son, Dmitri, about the money, the
envelope, and the signals? Is that logical? Is that clear?

"When the day of the murder planned by Smerdyakov came, we have
him falling downstairs in a feigned fit- with what object? In the
first place that Grigory, who had been intending to take his
medicine, might put it off and remain on guard, seeing there was no
one to look after the house, and, in the second place, I suppose,
that his master seeing that there was no one to guard him, and in
terror of a visit from his son, might redouble his vigilance and
precaution. And, most of all, I suppose that he, Smerdyakov,
disabled by the fit, might be carried from the kitchen, where he
always slept, apart from all the rest, and where he could go in and
out as he liked, to Grigory's room at the other end of the lodge,
where he was always put, shut off by a screen three paces from
their own bed. This was the immemorial custom established by his
master and the kindhearted Marfa Ignatyevna, whenever he had a fit.
There, lying behind the screen, he would most likely, to keep up
the sham, have begun groaning, and so keeping them awake all night
(as Grigory and his wife testified). And all this, we are to
believe, that he might more conveniently get up and murder his
master!

"But I shall be told that he shammed illness on purpose that he
might not be suspected and that he told the prisoner of the money
and the signals to tempt him to commit the murder, and when he had
murdered him and had gone away with the money, making a noise, most
likely, and waking people, Smerdyakov got up, am I to believe, and
went in- what for? To murder his master a second time and carry off
the money that had already been stolen? Gentlemen, are you
laughing? I am ashamed to put forward such suggestions, but,
incredible as it seems, that's just what the prisoner alleges. When
he had left the house, had knocked Grigory down and raised an
alarm, he tells us Smerdyakov got up, went in and murdered his
master and stole the money! I won't press the point that Smerdyakov
could hardly have reckoned on this beforehand, and have foreseen
that the furious and exasperated son would simply come to peep in
respectfully, though he knew the signals, and beat a retreat,
leaving Smerdyakov his booty. Gentlemen of the jury, I put this
question to you in earnest: when was the moment when Smerdyakov
could have committed his crime? Name that moment, or you can't
accuse him.

"But, perhaps, the fit was a real one, the sick man suddenly
recovered, heard a shout, and went out. Well- what then? He looked
about him and said, 'Why not go and kill the master?' And how did
he know what had happened, since he had been lying unconscious till
that moment? But there's a limit to these flights of fancy.

"'Quite so,' some astute people will tell me, 'but what if they
were in agreement? What if they murdered him together and shared
the money- what then?' A weighty question, truly! And the facts to
confirm it are astounding. One commits the murder and takes all the
trouble while his accomplice lies on one side shamming a fit,
apparently to arouse suspicion in everyone, alarm in his master and
alarm in Grigory. It would be interesting to know what motives
could have induced the two accomplices to form such an insane
plan.

"But perhaps it was not a case of active complicity on
Smerdyakov's part, but only of passive acquiescence; perhaps
Smerdyakov was intimidated and agreed not to prevent the murder,
and foreseeing that he would be blamed for letting his master be
murdered, without screaming for help or resisting, he may have
obtained permission from Dmitri Karamazov to get out of the way by
shamming a fit- 'you may murder him as you like; it's nothing to
me.' But as this attack of Smerdyakov's was bound to throw the
household into confusion, Dmitri Karamazov could never have agreed
to such a plan. I will waive that point however. Supposing that he
did agree, it would still follow that Dmitri Karamazov is the
murderer and the instigator, and Smerdyakov is only a passive
accomplice, and not even an accomplice, but merely acquiesced
against his will through terror.

"But what do we see? As soon as he is arrested the prisoner
instantly throws all the blame on Smerdyakov, not accusing him of
being his accomplice, but of being himself the murderer. 'He did it
alone,' he says. 'He murdered and robbed him. It was the work of
his hands.' Strange sort of accomplices who begin to accuse one
another at once! And think of the risk for Karamazov. After
committing the murder while his accomplice lay in bed, he throws
the blame on the invalid, who might well have resented it and in
self-preservation might well have confessed the truth. For he might
well have seen that the court would at once judge how far he was
responsible, and so he might well have reckoned that if he were
punished, it would be far less severely than the real murderer. But
in that case he would have been certain to make a confession, yet
he has not done so. Smerdyakov never hinted at their complicity,
though the actual murderer persisted in accusing him and declaring
that he had committed the crime alone.

"What's more, Smerdyakov at the inquiry volunteered the
statement that it was he who had told the prisoner of the envelope
of notes and of the signals, and that, but for him, he would have
known nothing about them. If he had really been a guilty
accomplice, would he so readily have made this statement at the
inquiry? On the contrary, he would have tried to conceal it, to
distort the facts or minimise them. But he was far from distorting
or minimising them. No one but an innocent man, who had no fear of
being charged with complicity, could have acted as he did. And in a
fit of melancholy arising from his disease and this catastrophe he
hanged himself yesterday. He left a note written in his peculiar
language, 'I destroy myself of my own will and inclination so as to
throw no blame on anyone.' What would it have cost him to add: 'I
am the murderer, not Karamazov'? But that he did not add. Did his
conscience lead him to suicide and not to avowing his guilt?

