
"One may say with certainty, gentlemen of the jury," the
prosecutor continued, "that outraged nature and the criminal heart
bring their own vengeance more completely than any earthly justice.
What's more, justice and punishment on earth positively alleviate
the punishment of nature and are, indeed, essential to the soul of
the criminal at such moments, as its salvation from despair. For I
cannot imagine the horror and moral suffering of Karamazov when he
learnt that she loved him, that for his sake she had rejected her
first lover, that she was summoning him, Mitya, to a new life, that
she was promising him happiness- and when? When everything was over
for him and nothing was possible!

"By the way, I will note in parenthesis a point of importance
for the light it throws on the prisoner's position at the moment.
This woman, this love of his, had been till the last moment, till
the very instant of his arrest, a being unattainable, passionately
desired by him but unattainable. Yet why did he not shoot himself
then, why did he relinquish his design and even forget where his
pistol was? It was just that passionate desire for love and the
hope of satisfying it that restrained him. Throughout their revels
he kept close to his adored mistress, who was at the banquet with
him and was more charming and fascinating to him than ever- he did
not leave her side, abasing himself in his homage before her.

"His passion might well, for a moment, stifle not only the fear
of arrest, but even the torments of conscience. For a moment, oh,
only for a moment! I can picture the state of mind of the criminal
hopelessly enslaved by these influences- first, the influence of
drink, of noise and excitement, of the thud of the dance and the
scream of the song, and of her, flushed with wine, singing and
dancing and laughing to him! Secondly, the hope in the background
that the fatal end might still be far off, that not till next
morning, at least, they would come and take him. So he had a few
hours and that's much, very much! In a few hours one can think of
many things. I imagine that he felt something like what criminals
feel when they are being taken to the scaffold. They have another
long, long street to pass down and at walking pace, past thousands
of people. Then there will be a turning into another street and
only at the end of that street the dread place of execution! I
fancy that at the beginning of the journey the condemned man,
sitting on his shameful cart, must feel that he has infinite life
still before him. The houses recede, the cart moves on- oh, that's
nothing, it's still far to the turning into the second street and
he still looks boldly to right and to left at those thousands of
callously curious people with their eyes fixed on him, and he still
fancies that he is just such a man as they. But now the turning
comes to the next street. Oh, that's nothing, nothing, there's
still a whole street before him, and however many houses have been
passed, he will still think there are many left. And so to the very
end, to the very scaffold.

"This I imagine is how it was with Karamazov then. 'They've not
had time yet,' he must have thought, 'I may still find some way
out, oh, there's still time to make some plan of defence, and now,
now- she is so fascinating!'

"His soul was full of confusion and dread, but he managed,
however, to put aside half his money and hide it somewhere- I
cannot otherwise explain the disappearance of quite half of the
three thousand he had just taken from his father's pillow. He had
been in Mokroe more than once before, he had caroused there for two
days together already, he knew the old big house with all its
passages and outbuildings. I imagine that part of the money was
hidden in that house, not long before the arrest, in some crevice,
under some floor, in some corner, under the roof. With what object?
I shall be asked. Why, the catastrophe may take place at once, of
course; he hadn't yet considered how to meet it, he hadn't the
time, his head was throbbing and his heart was with her, but money-
money was indispensable in any case! With money a man is always a
man. Perhaps such foresight at such a moment may strike you as
unnatural? But he assures us himself that a month before, at a
critical and exciting moment, he had halved his money and sewn it
up in a little bag. And though that was not true, as we shall prove
directly, it shows the idea was a familiar one to Karamazov, he had
contemplated it. What's more, when he declared at the inquiry that
he had put fifteen hundred roubles in a bag (which never existed)
he may have invented that little bag on the inspiration of the
moment, because he had two hours before divided his money and
hidden half of it at Mokroe till morning, in case of emergency,
simply not to have it on himself. Two extremes, gentlemen of the
jury, remember that Karamazov can contemplate two extremes and both
at once.

"We have looked in the house, but we haven't found the money. It
may still be there or it may have disappeared next day and be in
the prisoner's hands now. In any case he was at her side, on his
knees before her, she was lying on the bed, he had his hands
stretched out to her and he had so entirely forgotten everything
that he did not even hear the men coming to arrest him. He hadn't
time to prepare any line of defence in his mind. He was caught
unawares and confronted with his judges, the arbiters of his
destiny.

"Gentlemen of the jury, there are moments in the execution of
our duties when it is terrible for us to face a man, terrible on
his account, too! The moments of contemplating that animal fear,
when the criminal sees that all is lost, but still struggles, still
means to struggle, the moments when every instinct of
self-preservation rises up in him at once and he looks at you with
questioning and suffering eyes, studies you, your face, your
thoughts, uncertain on which side you will strike, and his
distracted mind frames thousands of plans in an instant, but he is
still afraid to speak, afraid of giving himself away! This
purgatory of the spirit, this animal thirst for self-preservation,
these humiliating moments of the human soul, are awful, and
sometimes arouse horror and compassion for the criminal even in the
lawyer. And this was what we all witnessed then.

"At first he was thunderstruck and in his terror dropped some
very compromising phrases. 'Blood! I've deserved it!' But he
quickly restrained himself. He had not prepared what he was to say,
what answer he was to make, he had nothing but a bare denial ready.
'I am not guilty of my father's death.' That was his fence for the
moment and behind it he hoped to throw up a barricade of some sort.
His first compromising exclamations he hastened to explain by
declaring that he was responsible for the death of the servant
Grigory only. 'Of that bloodshed I am guilty, but who has killed my
father, gentlemen, who has killed him? Who can have killed him, if
not I?' Do you hear, he asked us that, us, who had come to ask him
that question! Do you hear that uttered with such premature haste-
'if not I'- the animal cunning, the naivete the Karamazov
impatience of it? 'I didn't kill him and you mustn't think I did! I
wanted to kill him, gentlemen, I wanted to kill him,' he hastens to
admit (he was in a hurry, in a terrible hurry), 'but still I am not
guilty, it is not I murdered him.' He concedes to us that he wanted
to murder him, as though to say, you can see for yourselves how
truthful I am, so you'll believe all the sooner that I didn't
murder him. Oh, in such cases the criminal is often amazingly
shallow and credulous.

"At that point one of the lawyers asked him, as it were
incidentally, the most simple question, 'Wasn't it Smerdyakov
killed him?' Then, as we expected, he was horribly angry at our
having anticipated him and caught him unawares, before he had time
to pave the way to choose and snatch the moment when it would be
most natural to bring in Smerdyakov's name. He rushed at once to
the other extreme, as he always does, and began to assure us that
Smerdyakov could not have killed him, was not capable of it. But
don't believe him, that was only his cunning; he didn't really give
up the idea of Smerdyakov; on the contrary, he meant to bring him
forward again; for, indeed, he had no one else to bring forward,
but he would do that later, because for the moment that line was
spoiled for him. He would bring him forward perhaps next day, or
even a few days later, choosing an opportunity to cry out to us,
'You know I was more sceptical about Smerdyakov than you, you
remember that yourselves, but now I am convinced. He killed him, he
must have done!' And for the present he falls back upon a gloomy
and irritable denial. Impatience and anger prompted him, however,
to the most inept and incredible explanation of how he looked into
his father's window and how he respectfully withdrew. The worst of
it was that he was unaware of the position of affairs, of the
evidence given by Grigory.

"We proceeded to search him. The search angered, but encouraged
him, the whole three thousand had not been found on him, only half
of it. And no doubt only at that moment of angry silence, the
fiction of the little bag first occurred to him. No doubt he was
conscious himself of the improbability of the story and strove
painfully to make it sound more likely, to weave it into a romance
that would sound plausible. In such cases the first duty, the chief
task of the investigating lawyers, is to prevent the criminal being
prepared, to pounce upon him unexpectedly so that he may blurt out
his cherished ideas in all their simplicity, improbability and
inconsistency. The criminal can only be made to speak by the sudden
and apparently incidental communication of some new fact, of some
circumstance of great importance in the case, of which he had no
previous idea and could not have foreseen. We had such a fact in
readiness- that was Grigory's evidence about the open door through
which the prisoner had run out. He had completely forgotten about
that door and had not even suspected that Grigory could have seen
it.

