


Chapter

4
The Confession of a Passionate Heart- In Anecdote


"I was leading a wild life then. Father said just now that I
spent several thousand roubles in seducing young girls. That's a
swinish invention, and there was nothing of the sort. And if there
was, I didn't need money simply for that. With me money is an
accessory, the overflow of my heart, the framework. To-day she
would be my lady, to-morrow a wench out of the streets in her
place. I entertained them both. I threw away money by the handful
on music, rioting, and Gypsies. Sometimes I gave it to the ladies,
too, for they'll take it greedily, that must be admitted, and be
pleased and thankful for it. Ladies used to be fond of me: not all
of them, but it happened, it happened. But I always liked
side-paths, little dark back-alleys behind the main road- there one
finds adventures and surprises, and precious metal in the dirt. I
am speaking figuratively, brother. In the town I was in, there were
no such back-alleys in the literal sense, but morally there were.
If you were like me, you'd know what that means. I loved vice, I
loved the ignominy of vice. I loved cruelty; am I not a bug, am I
not a noxious insect? In fact a Karamazov! Once we went, a whole
lot of us, for a picnic, in seven sledges. It was dark, it was
winter, and I began squeezing a girl's hand, and forced her to kiss
me. She was the daughter of an official, a sweet, gentle,
submissive creature. She allowed me, she allowed me much in the
dark. She thought, poor thing, that I should come next day to make
her an offer (I was looked upon as a good match, too). But I didn't
say a word to her for five months. I used to see her in a corner at
dances (we were always having dances), her eyes watching me. I saw
how they glowed with fire- a fire of gentle indignation. This game
only tickled that insect lust I cherished in my soul. Five months
later she married an official and left the town, still angry, and
still, perhaps, in love with me. Now they live happily. Observe
that I told no one. I didn't boast of it. Though I'm full of low
desires, and love what's low, I'm not dishonourable. You're
blushing; your eyes flashed. Enough of this filth with you. And all
this was nothing much- wayside blossoms a la Paul de Kock- though
the cruel insect had already grown strong in my soul. I've a
perfect album of reminiscences, brother. God bless them, the
darlings. I tried to break it off without quarrelling. And I never
gave them away, I never bragged of one of them. But that's enough.
You can't suppose I brought you here simply to talk of such
nonsense. No, I'm going to tell you something more curious; and
don't be surprised that I'm glad to tell you, instead of being
ashamed."

"You say that because I blushed," Alyosha said suddenly. "I
wasn't blushing at what you were saying or at what you've done. I
blushed because I am the same as you are."

"You? Come, that's going a little too far!"

"No, it's not too far," said Alyosha warmly (obviously the idea
was not a new one). "The ladder's the same. I'm at the bottom step,
and you're above, somewhere about the thirteenth. That's how I see
it. But it's all the same. Absolutely the same in kind. Anyone on
the bottom step is bound to go up to the top one."

"Then one ought not to step on at all."

"Anyone who can help it had better not."

"But can you?"
