


Chapter

7
The Controversy


BUT Balaam's ass had suddenly spoken. The subject was a strange
one. Grigory had gone in the morning to make purchases, and had
heard from the shopkeeper Lukyanov the story of a Russian soldier
which had appeared in the newspaper of that day. This soldier had
been taken prisoner in some remote part of Asia, and was threatened
with an immediate agonising death if he did not renounce
Christianity and follow Islam. He refused to deny his faith, and
was tortured, flayed alive, and died, praising and glorifying
Christ. Grigory had related the story at table. Fyodor Pavlovitch
always liked, over the dessert after dinner, to laugh and talk, if
only with Grigory. This afternoon he was in a particularly
good-humoured and expansive mood. Sipping his brandy and listening
to the story, he observed that they ought to make a saint of a
soldier like that, and to take his skin to some monastery. "That
would make the people flock, and bring the money in."

Grigory frowned, seeing that Fyodor Pavlovitch was by no means
touched, but, as usual, was beginning to scoff. At that moment
Smerdyakov, who was standing by the door, smiled. Smerdyakov often
waited at table towards the end of dinner, and since Ivan's arrival
in our town he had done so every day.

"What are you grinning at?" asked Fyodor Pavlovitch, catching
the smile instantly, and knowing that it referred to Grigory.

"Well, my opinion is," Smerdyakov began suddenly and
unexpectedly in a loud voice, "that if that laudable soldier's
exploit was so very great there would have been, to my thinking, no
sin in it if he had on such an emergency renounced, so to speak,
the name of Christ and his own christening, to save by that same
his life, for good deeds, by which, in the course of years to
expiate his cowardice."

"How could it not be a sin? You're talking nonsense. For that
you'll go straight to hell and be roasted there like mutton," put
in Fyodor Pavlovitch.

It was at this point that Alyosha came in, and Fyodor
Pavlovitch, as we have seen, was highly delighted at his
appearance.

"We're on your subject, your subject," he chuckled gleefully,
making Alyosha sit down to listen.
