"Yes, that's purely Russian," said Alyosha smiling.

"Your words are worth a gold piece, O ass, and I'll give it to
you to-day. But as to the rest you talk nonsense, nonsense,
nonsense. Let me tell you, stupid, that we here are all of little
faith, only from carelessness, because we haven't time; things are
too much for us, and, in the second place, the Lord God has given
us so little time, only twenty-four hours in the day, so that one
hasn't even time to get sleep enough, much less to repent of one's
sins. While you have denied your faith to your enemies when you'd
nothing else to think about but to show your faith! So I consider,
brother, that it constitutes a sin."

"Constitute a sin it may, but consider yourself, Grigory
Vassilyevitch, that it only extenuates it, if it does constitute.
If I had believed then in very truth, as I ought to have believed,
then it really would have been sinful if I had not faced tortures
for my faith, and had gone over to the pagan Mohammedan faith. But,
of course, it wouldn't have come to torture then, because I should
only have had to say at that instant to the mountain, 'Move and
crush the tormentor,' and it would have moved and at the very
instant have crushed him like a black-beetle, and I should have
walked away as though nothing had happened, praising and glorifying
God. But, suppose at that very moment I had tried all that, and
cried to that mountain, 'Crush these tormentors,' and it hadn't
crushed them, how could I have helped doubting, pray, at such a
time, and at such a dread hour of mortal terror? And apart from
that, I should know already that I could not attain to the fullness
of the Kingdom of Heaven (for since the mountain had not moved at
my word, they could not think very much of my faith up aloft, and
there could be no very great reward awaiting me in the world to
come). So why should I let them flay the skin off me as well, and
to no good purpose? For, even though they had flayed my skin half
off my back, even then the mountain would not have moved at my word
or at my cry. And at such a moment not only doubt might come over
one but one might lose one's reason from fear, so that one would
not be able to think at all. And, therefore, how should I be
particularly to blame if not seeing my advantage or reward there or
here, I should, at least, save my skin. And so trusting fully in
the grace of the Lord I should cherish the hope that I might be
altogether forgiven."




