Another time he came and was silent for a while. Then he put his
head on one side, and looked at me.

"Is this Ben Gunn a man?" he asked.

"I do not know, sir," said I. "I am not very sure whether he's
sane."

"If there's any doubt about the matter, he is," returned the
doctor. "A man who has been three years biting his nails on a
desert island, Jim, can't expect to appear as sane as you or me. It
doesn't lie in human nature. Was it cheese you said he had a fancy
for?"

"Yes, sir, cheese," I answered.

"Well, Jim," says he, "just see the good that comes of being
dainty in your food. You've seen my snuff-box, haven't you? And you
never saw me take snuff, the reason being that in my snuff-box I
carry a piece of Parmesan cheese—a cheese made in Italy, very
nutritious. Well, that's for Ben Gunn!"

Before supper was eaten we buried old Tom in the sand and stood
round him for a while bare-headed in the breeze. A good deal of
firewood had been got in, but not enough for the captain's fancy,
and he shook his head over it and told us we "must get back to this
tomorrow rather livelier." Then, when we had eaten our pork and
each had a good stiff glass of brandy grog, the three chiefs got
together in a corner to discuss our prospects.

It appears they were at their wits' end what to do, the stores
being so low that we must have been starved into surrender long
before help came. But our best hope, it was decided, was to kill
off the buccaneers until they either hauled down their flag or ran
away with the Hispaniola. From nineteen they were already reduced
to fifteen, two others were wounded, and one at least—the man shot
beside the gun—severely wounded, if he were not dead. Every time we
had a crack at them, we were to take it, saving our own lives, with
the extremest care. And besides that, we had two able allies—rum
and the climate.

As for the first, though we were about half a mile away, we
could hear them roaring and singing late into the night; and as for
the second, the doctor staked his wig that, camped where they were
in the marsh and unprovided with remedies, the half of them would
be on their backs before a week.

"So," he added, "if we are not all shot down first they'll be
glad to be packing in the schooner. It's always a ship, and they
can get to buccaneering again, I suppose."

"First ship that ever I lost," said Captain Smollett.
