
After that, we kept under cover of the bulwarks, and when next I
looked out they had disappeared from the spit, and the spit itself
had almost melted out of sight in the growing distance. That was,
at least, the end of that; and before noon, to my inexpressible
joy, the highest rock of Treasure Island had sunk into the blue
round of sea.

We were so short of men that everyone on board had to bear a
handâ€”only the captain lying on a mattress in the stern and giving
his orders, for though greatly recovered he was still in want of
quiet. We laid her head for the nearest port in Spanish America,
for we could not risk the voyage home without fresh hands; and as
it was, what with baffling winds and a couple of fresh gales, we
were all worn out before we reached it.

It was just at sundown when we cast anchor in a most beautiful
land-locked gulf, and were immediately surrounded by shore boats
full of Negroes and Mexican Indians and half-bloods selling fruits
and vegetables and offering to dive for bits of money. The sight of
so many good-humoured faces (especially the blacks), the taste of
the tropical fruits, and above all the lights that began to shine
in the town made a most charming contrast to our dark and bloody
sojourn on the island; and the doctor and the squire, taking me
along with them, went ashore to pass the early part of the night.
Here they met the captain of an English man-of-war, fell in talk
with him, went on board his ship, and, in short, had so agreeable a
time that day was breaking when we came alongside the
Hispaniola.

Ben Gunn was on deck alone, and as soon as we came on board he
began, with wonderful contortions, to make us a confession. Silver
was gone. The maroon had connived at his escape in a shore boat
some hours ago, and he now assured us he had only done so to
preserve our lives, which would certainly have been forfeit if
"that man with the one leg had stayed aboard." But this was not
all. The sea-cook had not gone empty-handed. He had cut through a
bulkhead unobserved and had removed one of the sacks of coin, worth
perhaps three or four hundred guineas, to help him on his further
wanderings.

I think we were all pleased to be so cheaply quit of him.

Well, to make a long story short, we got a few hands on board,
made a good cruise home, and the Hispaniola reached Bristol just as
Mr. Blandly was beginning to think of fitting out her consort. Five
men only of those who had sailed returned with her. "Drink and the
devil had done for the rest," with a vengeance, although, to be
sure, we were not quite in so bad a case as that other ship they
sang about:

With one man of her crew alive,

What put to sea with seventy-five.

All of us had an ample share of the treasure and used it wisely
or foolishly, according to our natures. Captain Smollett is now
retired from the sea. Gray not only saved his money, but being
suddenly smit with the desire to rise, also studied his profession,
and he is now mate and part owner of a fine full-rigged ship,
married besides, and the father of a family. As for Ben Gunn, he
got a thousand pounds, which he spent or lost in three weeks, or to
be more exact, in nineteen days, for he was back begging on the
twentieth. Then he was given a lodge to keep, exactly as he had
feared upon the island; and he still lives, a great favourite,
though something of a butt, with the country boys, and a notable
singer in church on Sundays and saints' days.

Of Silver we have heard no more. That formidable seafaring man
with one leg has at last gone clean out of my life; but I dare say
he met his old Negress, and perhaps still lives in comfort with her
and Captain Flint. It is to be hoped so, I suppose, for his chances
of comfort in another world are very small.

