Instantly I began to extricate myself and crawl back again, with
what speed and silence I could manage, to the more open portion of
the wood. As I did so, I could hear hails coming and going between
the old buccaneer and his comrades, and this sound of danger lent
me wings. As soon as I was clear of the thicket, I ran as I never
ran before, scarce minding the direction of my flight, so long as
it led me from the murderers; and as I ran, fear grew and grew upon
me until it turned into a kind of frenzy.

Indeed, could anyone be more entirely lost than I? When the gun
fired, how should I dare to go down to the boats among those
fiends, still smoking from their crime? Would not the first of them
who saw me wring my neck like a snipe's? Would not my absence
itself be an evidence to them of my alarm, and therefore of my
fatal knowledge? It was all over, I thought. Good-bye to the
Hispaniola; good-bye to the squire, the doctor, and the captain!
There was nothing left for me but death by starvation or death by
the hands of the mutineers.

All this while, as I say, I was still running, and without
taking any notice, I had drawn near to the foot of the little hill
with the two peaks and had got into a part of the island where the
live-oaks grew more widely apart and seemed more like forest trees
in their bearing and dimensions. Mingled with these were a few
scattered pines, some fifty, some nearer seventy, feet high. The
air too smelt more freshly than down beside the marsh. And here a
fresh alarm brought me to a standstill with a thumping heart.




