This Relation amazed the Empress very much; for though in the
World she came from, she had heard great reports of the
Philosophers-stone, yet had she not heard of any that had ever
found it out, which made her believe that it was but a Chymera; she
called also to mind, that there had been in the same World a Man
who had a little Stone which cured all kinds of Diseases outward
and inward, according it was applied; and that a famous Chymist had
found out a certain Liquor called Alkahest, which by the vertue of
its own fire, consumed all Diseases; but she had never heard of a
Medicine that could renew old Age, and render it beautiful,
vigorous and strong: Nor would she have so easily believed it, had
it been a medicine prepared by Art; for she knew that Art, being
Natures Changeling, was not able to produce such a powerful effect;
but being that the Gum did grow naturally, she did not so much
scruple at it; for she knew that Nature's Works are so various and
wonderful, that no particular Creature is able to trace her
ways.

The Conferences of the Chymists being finished, the Empress made
an Assembly of her Galenical Physicians, her Herbalists and
Anatomists; and first she enquired of her Herbalists the particular
effects of several Herbs and Drugs, and whence they
proceeded?&#160;To which they answered, that they could, for the
most part, tell her Majesty the vertues and operations of them, but
the particular causes of their effects were unknown; onely thus
much they could say, that their operations and vertues were
generally caused by their proper inherent, corporeal, figurative
motions, which being infinitely various in Infinite Nature, did
produce infinite several effects. And it is observed, said they,
that Herbs and Drugs are as wise in their operations, as Men in
their words and actions; nay, wiser; and their effects are more
certain then Men in their opinions; for though they cannot
discourse like Men, yet have they Sense and Reason, as well as Men;
for the discursive faculty is but a particular effect of Sense and
Reason in some particular Creatures, to wit, Men, and not a
principle of Nature, and argues often more folly then wisdom. The
Empress asked, Whether they could not by a composition and
commixture of other Drugs make them work other effects then they
did, used by themselves? They answered, That they could make them
produce artificial effects, but not alter their inherent, proper
and particular natures.

Then the Empress commanded her Anatomists to dissect such kinds
of Creatures as are called Monsters. But they answered her Majesty,
That it would be but an unprofitable and useless work, and hinder
their better imployments; for when we dissect dead Animals, said
they, it is for no other end, but to observe what&#160;defects and
distempers they had, that we may cure the like in living ones, so
that all our care and industry concerns onely the preservation of
Mankind; but we hope your Majesty will not preserve Monsters, which
are most commonly destroyed, except it be for novelty: Neither will
the dissection of Monsters prevent the errors of Nature's irregular
actions; for by dissecting some, we cannot prevent the production
of others; so that our pains and labour will be to no purpose,
unless to satisfie the vain curiosities of inquisitive men. The
Empress replied, That such dissections would be very beneficial to
Experimental Philosophers. If Experimental Philosophers, answer'd
they, do spend their time in such useless Inspections, they waste
it in vain, and have nothing but their labour for their pains.

Lastly, her Majesty had some Conferences with the Galenick
Physicians about several Diseases, and amongst the rest, desired to
know the cause and nature of Apoplexies, and the spotted Plague.
They answered, That a deadly Apoplexy was a dead palsie of the
Brain, and the spotted Plague was a Gangrene of the Vital parts:
and as the Gangrene of outward parts did strike inwardly; so the
Gangrene of inward parts, did break forth outwardly: which is the
cause, said they, that as soon as the spots appear, death follows;
for then it is an infallible sign, that the body is throughout
infected with a Gangrene, which is a spreadingevil; but some
Gangrenes do spread more suddenly than others, and of all sorts of
Gangrenes, the Plaguy- Gangrene is the most infectious; for other
Gangrenes infect but the next adjoining parts of one particular
body, and having killed that same Creature, go no further, but
cease; when as, the Gangrene of the Plague, infects not onely the
adjoining parts of one particular Creature, but also those that are
distant; that is, one particular body infects another, and so
breeds a Universal Contagion. But the Empress being very desirous
to know in what manner the Plague was propagated, and became so
contagious, asked, Whether it went actually out of one body into
another? To which they answered, That it was a great dispute
amongst the Learned of their Profession, Whether it came by a
division and composition of parts; that is, by expiration and
inspiration; or whether it was caused by imitation: some
Experimental Philosophers, said they, will make us believe, that by
the help of their Microscopes, they have observed the Plague to be
a body of little Flies like Atoms, which go out of one body into
another, through the sensitive passages; but the most experienced
and wisest of our society, have rejected this opinion as a
ridiculous fancy, and do, for the most part, believe, that it is
caused by an imitation of Parts; so that the motions of some parts
which are sound, do imitate the motions of those that are infected
and that by this means, the Plague becomes contagions, and
spreading.

The Empress having hitherto spent her time in the Examination of
the Bird- Fish- Worm- and Ape- men, &amp;c. and received several
Intelligences from their several imployments; at last had a mind to
divert her self after her serious Discourses, and therefore she
sent for the Spider-men, which were her Mathematicians, the
Lice-men which were here Geometricians, and the Magpie- Parrot- and
Jackdaw-men, which were her Orators and Logicians. The Spider-men
came first, and presented her Majesty with a table full of
Mathematical points, lines, and figures of all sorts, of squares,
circles, triangles, and the like; which the Empress,
notwithstanding that she had a very ready wit, and quick
apprehension, could not understand; but the more she endeavoured to
learn, the more was she confounded: Whether they did ever square
the Circle, I cannot exactly tell, nor whether they could make
imaginary points and lines; but this I dare say, That their points
and lines were so slender, small and thin, that they seem'd next to
Imaginary. The Mathematicians were in great esteem with the
Empress, as being not onely the chief Tutors and Instructors in
many Arts, but some of them excellent Magicians and Informers of
spirits, which was the reason their Characters were so abstruse and
intricate, that the Emperess knew not what to make of them. There
is so much to learn in your Art, said she, that I can neither spare
time from other affairs to busie my self in your&#160;profession;
nor, if I could, do I think I should ever be able to understand
your Imaginary points, lines and figures, because they are
Non-beings.

Then came the Lice-men, and endeavoured to measure all things to
a hairs-breadth, and weigh them to an Atom; but their weights would
seldom agree, especially in the weighing of Air, which they found a
task impossible to be done; at which the Empress began to be
displeased, and told them, that there was neither Truth nor Justice
in their Profession; and so dissolved their society.

After this, the Empress was resolved to hear the Magpie- Parrot-
and Jackdaw-men, which were her professed Orators and Logicians;
whereupon one of the Parrot-men rose with great formality, and
endeavoured to make an Eloquent Speech before her Majesty; but
before he had half ended, his arguments and divisions being so
many, that they caused a great confusion in his brain, he could not
go forward, but was forced to retire backward, with great disgrace
both to himself, and the whole society; and although one of his
brethren endeavoured to second him by another speech, yet was he as
far to seek, as the former. At which the Empress appear'd not a
little troubled, and told them, That they followed too much the
Rules of Art, and confounded themselves with too nice formalities
and distinctions; but since I know, said she, that you are a people
who have naturally voluble tongues,&#160;and good memories; I
desire you to consider more the subject you speak of, then your
artificial periods, connexions and parts of speech, and leave the
rest to your natural Eloquence; which they did, and so became very
eminent Orators.

Lastly, her Imperial Majesty being desirous to know what
progress her Logicians had made in the Art of disputing, Commanded
them to argue upon several Themes or Subjects; which they did; and
having made a very nice discourse of Logistical terms and
propositions, entred into a dispute by way of Syllogistical
Arguments, through all the Figures and Modes: One began with an
Argument of the first Mode of the first Figure, thus: Every
Politician is wise: Every Knave is a Politician, Therefore every
Knave is wise.

Another contradicted him with a Syllogism of the second Mode of
the same Figure, thus: No Politician is wise: Every Knave is a
Politician, Therefore no Knave is wise.

The third made an Argument in the third Mode of the same Figure,
after this manner: Every Politician is wise: some Knaves are
Politicians, Therefore some Knaves are wise.

The Fourth concluded with a Syllogism in the fourth Mode of the
same Figure, thus; No Politician is wise: some Knaves are
Politicians, Therefore some Knaves are not wise.
