
After this they took another subject, and one propounded this
Syllogism: Every Philosopher is wise: Every Beast is wise,
Therefore every Beast is a Philosopher.

But another said that this Argument was false, therefore he
contradicted him with a Syllogism of the second Figure of the
fourth Mode, thus: Every Philosopher is wise: some Beasts are not
wise, Therefore some Beasts are not Philosophers.

Thus they argued, and intended to go on, but the Empress
interrupted them: I have enough, said she, of your chopt Logick,
and will hear no more of your Syllogisms; for it disorders my
Reason, and puts my Brain on the rack; your formal argumentations
are able to spoil all natural wit; and I'le have you to consider,
that Art does not make Reason, but Reason makes Art; and therefore
as much as Reason is above Art, so much is a natural rational
discourse to be preferred before an artificial: for Art is, for the
most part irregular, and disorders Men's understandings more then
it rectifies&#160;them, and leads them into a Labyrinth where
they'l never get out, and makes them dull and unfit for useful
employments; especially your Art of Logick, which consists onely in
contradicting each other, in making sophismes, and obscuring Truth,
instead of clearing it.

But they replied to her Majesty, That the knowledg of Nature,
that is, Natural Philosophy, would be imperfect without the Art of
Logick; and that there was an improbable Truth which could no
otherwise be found out then by the Art of disputing. Truly, said
the Empress, I do believe that it is with Natural Philosophy, as it
is with all other effects of Nature; for no particular knowledg can
be perfect, by reason knowledg is dividable, as well as composable;
nay, to speak properly, Nature her self cannot boast of any
perfection, but God himself; because there are so many irregular
motions in Nature, and 'tis but a folly to think that Art should be
able to regulate them, since Art it self is, for the most part,
irregular. But as for Improbable Truth I know not what your meaning
is; for Truth is more then Improbability: nay, there is so much
difference between Truth and Improbability, that I cannot conceive
it possible how they can be joined together. In short, said she, I
do no ways approve of your Profession; and though I will not
dissolve your society, yet I shall never take delight in hearing
you any more; wherefore confine your disputations to your
Schools,&#160;lest besides the Commonwealth of Learning, they
disturb also Divinity and Policy, Religion and Laws, and by that
means draw an utter ruine and destruction both upon Church and
State.

After the Empress had thus finish'd the Discourses and
Conferences with the mentioned societies of her Vertuoso's, she
considered by her self the manner of their Religion, and finding it
very defective, was troubled, that so wise and knowing a people
should have no more knowledg of the Divine Truth; Wherefore she
consulted with her own thoughts, whether it was possible to convert
them all to her own Religion, and to that end she resolved to build
Churches, and make also up a Congregation of Women, whereof she
intended to be the head her self, and to instruct them in the
several points of her Religion. This she had no sooner begun, but
the Women, which generally had quick wits, subtile conceptions,
clear understandings, and solid judgments, became, in a short time,
very devout and zealous Sisters; for the Empress had an excellent
gift of Preaching, and instructing them in the Articles of Faith;
and by that means, she converted them not onely soon, but gained an
extraordinary love of all her Subjects throughout that World. But
at last, pondering with her self the inconstant nature of Mankind,
and fearing that in time they would grow weary, and desert the
divine Truth, following their own fancies, and living according to
their own desires; she began to&#160;be troubled that her labours
and pains should prove of so little effect, and therefore studied
all manner of ways to prevent it. Amongst the rest, she call'd to
mind a Relation which the Bird-men made her once, of a Mountain
that did burn in flames of fire; and thereupon did immediately send
for the wisest and subtilest of her Worm-men, commanding them to
discover the cause of the Eruption of that same fire; which they
did; and having dived to the very bottom of the Mountain, informed
her Majesty, That there was a certain sort of Stone, whose nature
was such, that being wetted, it would grow excessively hot, and
break forth into a flaming-fire, until it became dry, and then it
ceased from burning. The Empress was glad to hear this news, and
forthwith desired the Worm men to bring her some of that Stone, but
be sure to keep it secret: she sent also for the Bird-men, and
asked them whether they could not get her a piece of the Sun-
stone? They answered, That it was impossible, unless they did spoil
or lessen the light of the World: but, said they, if it please your
Majesty, we can demolish one of the numerous Stars of the Sky,
which the World will never miss.

The Empress was very well satisfied with this proposal, and
having thus imployed these two sorts of men, in the mean while
builded two Chappels one above another; the one she lined
throughout with Diamonds, both Roof, Walls and Pillars; but the
other&#160;she resolved to line with the Star-stone; the Fire-
stone she placed upon the Diamond-lining, by reason Fire has no
power on Diamonds; and when she would have that Chappel where the
Fire-stone was, appear all in flame, she had by the means of
Artificial pipes, water conveighed into it, which by turning the
Cock, did, as out of a Fountain, spring over all the room, and as
long as the Fire-stone was wet, the Chappel seemed to be all in a
flaming-fire.

The other Chappel, which was lined with the Star- stone, did
onely cast a splendorous and comfortable light; both the Chappels
stood upon Pillars, just in the middle of a round Cloyster, which
was dark as night; neither was there any other light within them,
but what came from the Fire- and Star-stone; and being every where
open, allowed to all that were within the compass of the Cloyster,
a free prospect into them; besides, they were so artificially
contrived, that they did both move in a Circle about their own
Centres, without intermission, contrary ways. In the Chappel which
was lined with the Fire-stone, the Empress preached Sermons of
Terror to the wicked, and told them of the punishments for their
sins, to wit, That after this life they should be tormented in an
everlasting Fire. But in the other Chappel lined with the Star-
stone, she preached Sermons of Comfort to those that repented of
their sins, and were troubled at their own wickedness: Neither did
the heat of the flame in the&#160;least hinder her; for the
Fire-stone did not cast so great a heat but the Empress was able to
endure it, by reason the water which was poured on the Stone, by
its own self-motion turned into a flaming-fire, occasioned by the
natural motions of the Stone, which made the flame weaker then if
it had been fed by some other kind of fuel; the other Chappel where
the Star-Stone was, although it did cast a great light, yet was it
without all heat, and the Empress appear'd like an Angel in it; and
as that Chappel was an embleme of Hell, so this was an embleme of
Heaven. And thus the Empress, by Art, and her own Ingenuity, did
not onely convert the Blazing-World to her own Religion, but kept
them in a constant belief, without inforcement or blood-shed; for
she knew well, that belief was a thing not to be forced or pressed
upon the people, but to be instilled into their minds by gentle
perswasions; and after this manner she encouraged them also in all
other duties and employments: for Fear, though it makes people
obey, yet does it not last so long, nor is it so sure a means to
keep them to their duties, as Love.

Last of all, when she saw that both Church and State now in a
well-ordered and setled condition, her thoughts reflected upon the
World she came from; and though she had a great desire to know the
condition of the same, yet could she advise no manner of way how to
gain any knowledg thereof; at last, after many serious
considerations, she conceived that it was impossible to&#160;be
done by any other means, then by the help of Immaterial Spirits;
wherefore she made a Convocation of the most learned, witty and
ingenious of all the forementioned sorts of Men, and desired to
know of them, whether there were any Immaterial Spirits in their
World. First, she enquired of the Worm-men, whether they had
perceived some within the Earth? They answered her Majesty, That
they never knew of any such Creatures; for whatsoever did dwell
within the Earth, said they, was imbodied and material. Then she
asked the Fly-men, whether they had observed any in the Air? for
you having numerous Eyes, said she, will be more able to perceive
them, than any other Creatures. To which they answered her Majesty,
That although Spirits, being immaterial, could not be perceived by
the Worm-men in the Earth, yet they perceived that such Creatures
did lodg in the Vehicles of the Air. Then the Empress asked,
Whether they could speak to them, and whether they did understand
each other? The Fly-men answered, That those Spirits were always
cloth'd in some sort or other of Material Garments; which Garments
were their Bodies, made, for the most part, of Air; and when
occasion served, they could put on any other sort of substances;
but yet they could not put these substances into any form or shape,
as they pleased. The Empress asked the Fly-men, whether it was
possible that she could be acquainted, and have some conferences
with them?

They answered, They did verily believe she might. Hereupon the
Empress commanded the Fly-men to ask some of the Spirits, Whether
they would be pleased to give her a Visit? This they did; and after
the Spirits had presented themselves to the Empress, (in what
shapes and forms, I cannot exactly tell) after some few Complements
that passed between them, the Empress told the Spirits that she
questioned not, but they did know how she was a stranger in that
World, and by what miraculous means she was arrived there; and
since she had a great desire to know the condition of the World she
came from, her request to the Spirits was, To give her some
Information thereof, especially of those parts of the World where
she was born, bred, and educated; as also of her particular friends
and acquaintance: all which, the Spirits did according to her
desire. At last, after a great many conferences and particular
intelligences, which the Spirits gave the Empress, to her great
satisfaction and content; she enquired after the most famous
Students, Writers, and Experimental Philosophers in that World,
which they gave her full relation of: amongst the rest she
enquired, Whether there were none that had found out yet the Jews
Cabbala? Several have endeavoured it, answered the Spirits, but
those that came nearest (although themselves denied it) were one
Dr. Dee, and one Edward Kelly, the one representing Moses, and the
other Aaron; for Kelly was to Dr.Dee, as Aaron to Moses;&#160;but
yet they proved at last but meer Cheats; and were described by one
of their own Country-men, a famous Poet, named Ben. Johnson, in a
Play call'd,The Alchymist, where he expressed Kelly by Capt. Face,
and Dee by Dr. Subtle, and their two Wives by Doll Common, and the
Widow; by the Spaniard the Play, he meant the Spanish Ambassador,
and by Sir Epicure Mammon, a Polish Lord. The Empress remembred
that she had seen the Play, and asked the Spirits, whom he meant by
the name of Ananias? some Zealous Brethren, answered they, in
Holland, Germany, and several other places. Then she asked them,
Who was meant by the Druggist? Truly, answered the Spirits, We have
forgot, it being so long since it was made and acted. What, replied
the Empress, Can Spirits forget? Yes, said the Spirits; for what is
past, is onely kept in memory, if it be not recorded. I did
believe, said the Empress, That Spirits had no need of Memory, or
Remembrance, and could not be subject to Forgetfulness. How can we,
answered they, give an account of things present, if we had no
Memory, but especially of things past, unrecorded, if we had no
Remembrance? said the Empress, By present Knowledg and
Understanding. The Spirits answered, That present Knowledg and
Understanding was of actions or things present, not of past. But,
said the Empress, you know what is to come, without Memory or
Remembrance; and therefore you may know&#160;what is past without
memory and remembrance. They answered, That their foreknowledg was
onely a prudent and subtile Observation made by comparing of things
or actions past, with those that are present; and that Remembrance
was nothing else but a Repetition of things or actions past.

Then the Empress asked the Spirits, Whether there was a
threefold Cabbala? They answered, Dee and Kelly made but a two-fold
Cabbala, to wit, of the Old and New Testament, but others might not
onely make two or three, but threescore Cabbala's, if they pleased.
The Empress asked, Whether it was a Traditional, or meerly a
Scriptural, or whether it was a Literal, Philosophical, or Moral
Cabbala some, answered they, did believe it meerly Traditional,
others Scriptural, some Literal, and some Metaphorical: but the
truth is, said they, 'twas partly one, and partly the other; as
partly a Traditional, partly a Scriptural, partly Literal, partly
Metaphorical. The Empress asked further, Whether the Cabbala was a
work onely of Natural Reason, or of Divine Inspiration? Many, said
the Spirits, that write Cabbala's pretend to Divine Inspirations;
but whether it be so, or not, it does not belong to us to judg;
onely this we must needs confess, that it is a work which requires
a good wit, and a strong Faith, but not Natural Reason; for though
Natural Reason is most perswasive, yet Faith is the chief that is
required in Cabbalists. But, said the Empress,&#160;Is there not
Divine Reason, as well as there is Natural? No, answered they: for
there is but a Divine Faith, and as for Reason it is onely Natural;
but you Mortals are so puzled about this Divine Faith, and Natural
Reason, that you do not know well how to distinguish them, but
confound them both, which is the cause you have so many divine
Philosophers who make a Gallimafry both of Reason and Faith. Then
she asked, Whether pure Natural Philosophers were Cabbalists? They
answered, No; but onely your Mystical or Divine Philosophers, such
as study beyond Sense and Reason. she enquired further, Whether
there was any Cabbala in God, or whether God was full of Idea's?
They answered, There could be nothing in God, nor could God be full
of any thing, either forms or figures, but of himself; for God is
the Perfection of all things, and an Unexpressible Being, beyond
the conception of any Creature, either Natural or Supernatural.
Then I pray inform me, said the Empress, Whether the Jews Cabbala
or any other, consist in Numbers? The Spirits answered, No: for
Numbers are odd, and different, and would make a disagreement in
the Cabbala. But, said she again, Is it a sin then not to know or
understand the Cabbala? God is so merciful, answered they, and so
just, that he will never damn the ignorant, and save onely those
that pretend to know him and his secret Counsels by their
Cabbala's; but he loves those that adore and&#160;worship him with
fear and reverence, and with a pure heart. she asked further, which
of these two Cabbala's was most approved, the Natural, or
Theological? The Theological, answered they, is mystical, and
belongs onely to Faith; but the Natural belongs to Reason. Then she
asked them, Whether Divine Faith was made out of Reason? No
answered they, for Faith proceeds onely from a Divine saving Grace,
which is a peculiar Gift of God. How comes it then, replied she,
that Men, even those that are of several opinions, have Faith more
or less? A Natural Belief, answered they, is not a Divine Faith.
But, proceeded the Empress, How are you sure that God cannot be
known? The several Opinions you Mortals have of God, answered they,
are sufficient witnesses thereof. Well then, replied the Empress,
leaving this inquisitive knowledg of God, I pray inform me, whether
you Spirits give motion to Natural Bodies? No, answered they; but,
on the contrary, Natural material bodies give Spirits motion; for
we Spirits, being incorporeal, have no motion but from our
Corporeal Vehicles, so that we move by the help of our Bodies, and
not the Bodies by our help; for pure Spirits are immovable. If this
be so, replied the Empress, How comes it then that you can move so
suddenly at a vast distance? They answered, That some sorts of
matter were more pure, rare, and consequently more light and agil
then others; and this was the reason&#160;for their quick and
sudden motions. Then the Empress asked them, Whether they could
speak without a body, or bodily organs? No, said they; nor could we
have any bodily sense, but onely knowledg. she asked, Whether they
could have Knowledg without Body? Not a Natural, answered they, but
a Supernatural Knowledg, which is a far better Knowledg then a
Natural. Then she asked them, Whether they had a General or
Universal Knowledg? They answered, Single or particular created
Spirits, have not; for not any Creature, but God Himself, can have
an absolute and perfect knowledg of all things. The Empress asked
them further, Whether Spirits had inward and outward parts? No,
answered they; for parts onely belong to bodies, not to Spirits.
Again, she asked them, Whether their Vehicles were living Bodies?
They are Self-moving Bodies, answered they, and therefore they must
needs be living; for nothing can move it self, without it hath
life. Then, said she, it must necessarily follow, that this living,
Self-moving Body gives motion to the Spirit, and not the Spirit
motion to the Body, as its Vehicle. You say very true, answered
they, and we told you this before. Then the Empress asked them, Of
what forms of Matter those Vehicles were? They said they were of
several different forms; some gross and dense, and others more
pure, rare, and subtil. If you be not Material, said the Empress,
how can you be Generators of all Creatures? We are no&#160;more,
answered they, the Generators of material Creatures, then they are
the Generators of us Spirits. Then she asked, Whether they did
leave their Vehicles? No, answered they; for we being incorporeal,
cannot leave or quit them: but our Vehicles do change into several
forms and figures, according as occasion requires. Then the Empress
desired the Spirits to tell her, Whether Man was a little World?
They answered, That if a Fly or Worm was a little World, then Man
was so too. she asked again, Whether our Fore-fathers had been as
wise, as Men were at present, and had understood sense and reason,
as well as they did now? They answered, That in former Ages they
had been as wise as they are in this present, nay, wiser; for, said
they, many in this age do think their Fore-fathers have been Fools,
by which they prove themselves to be such. The Empress asked
further, Whether there was any Plastick power in Nature? Truly,
said the Spirits, Plastick power is a hard word, &amp; signifies no
more then the power of the corporeal, figurative motions of Nature.
After this, the Empress desired the Spirits to inform her where the
Paradise was, Whether it was in the midst of the World as a Centre
of pleasure? or, Whether it was the whole World; or a peculiar
World by it self, as a World of Life, and not of Matter; or whether
it was mixt, as a world of living animal Creatures? They answered,
That Paradise was not in the world she came from, but in that world
she lived in at present; and&#160;that it was the very same place
where she kept her Court, and where her Palace stood, in the midst
of the Imperial City. The Empress asked further, Whether in the
beginning and Creation of the World, all Beasts could speak? They
answered, That no Beasts could speak, but onely those sorts of
Creatures which were Fish-men, Bear-men, Worm-men, and the like,
which could speak in the first Age, as well as they do now. she
asked again, Whether they were none of those Spirits that frighted
Adam out of the Paradise, at least caused him not to return thither
again? They an? swered they were not. Then she desired to be
informed, whither Adam fled when he was driven out of the Paradise?
Out of this World, said they, you are now Empress of, into the
World you came from. If this be so, replied the Empress, then
surely those Cabbalists are much out of their story, who believe
the Paradise to be a world of Life onely, without Matter, for this
world, though it be most pleasant and fruitful, yet it is not a
world of meer Immaterial life, but a world of living, Material
Creatures. Without question, they are, answered the Spirits; for
not all Cabbala's are true. Then the Empress asked, That since it
is mentioned in the story of the Creation of the World, that Eve
was tempted by the Serpent, Whether the Devil was within the
Serpent, or, Whether the Serpent tempted her without the Devil?
They answered, That the Devil was within the Serpent. But how came
it then,&#160;replied she, that the Serpent was cursed? They
answered, because the Devil was in him; for are not those men in
danger of damnation which have the Devil within them, who perswades
them to believe and act wickedly? The Empress asked further,
Whether Light and the Heavens were all one? They answered, That
that Region which contains the Lucid natural Orbs, was by Mortals
named Heaven; but the Beatifical Heaven, which is the Habitation of
the Blessed Angels and Souls, was so far beyond it, that it could
not be compared to any Natural Creature. Then the Empress asked
them, Whether all Matter was fluid at first? They answered, That
Matter was always as it is, and that some parts of Matter were
rare, some dense, some fluid, some solid, &amp;c. Neither was God
bound to make all Matter fluid at first. she asked further, Whether
Matter was immovable in it self? We have answered you before, said
they, That there is no motion but in Matter; and were it not for
the motion of Matter, we Spirits, could not move, nor give you any
answer to your several questions. After this, the Empress asked the
Spirits, Whether the Universe was made within the space of six
days, or, Whether by those six days, were meant so many Decrees or
Commands of God? They answered her, That the World was made by the
All-powerful Decree and Command of God; but whether there were six
Decrees or Commands, or fewer, or more, no Creature was able to
tell.

