


The Second Part of the Description of the
New Blazing-World.


The Empress having now ordered and setled her Government to the
best advantage and quiet of her Blazing-World, lived and reigned
most happily and blessedly, and received oftentimes Visits from the
Immaterial Spirits, who gave her Intelligence of all such things as
she desired to know, and they were able to inform her of: One time
they told her, how the World she came from, was imbroiled in a
great War, and that most parts or Nations thereof made War against
that Kingdom which was her Native Country,&#160;where all her
Friends and Relations did live; at which the Empress was extreamly
troubled; insomuch that the Emperor perceived her grief by her
tears, and examining the cause thereof, she told him that she had
received Intelligence from the Spirits, that that part of the World
she came from, which was her native Country, was like to be
destroyed by numerous Enemies that made War against it. The Emperor
being very sensible of this ill news, especially of the Trouble it
caused to the Empress, endeavoured to comfort her as much as
possibly he could; and told her, that she might have all the
assistance which the Blazing-World was able to afford. she
answered, That if there were any possibility of transporting Forces
out of the Blazing-World, into the World she came from, she would
not fear so much the ruin thereof: but, said she, there being no
probability of effecting anysuch thing, I know not how to shew my
readiness to serve my Native Country. The Emperor asked, Whether
those Spirits that gave her Intelligence of this War, could not
with all their Power and Forces, assist her against those Enemies?
she answered, That Spirits could not arm themselves, nor make any
use of Artificial Arms or Weapons; for their Vehicles were Natural
Bodies, not Artificial: Besides, said she, the violent and strong
actions of war, will never agree with Immaterial Spirits; for
Immaterial Spirits cannot fight, nor make Trenches, Fortifications,
and the like. But, said the Emperor, their Vehicles
can;&#160;especially if those Vehicles be mens Bodies, they may be
serviceable in all the actions of War. Alas, replied the Empress,
that will never do; for first, said she, it will be difficult to
get so many dead Bodies for their Vehicles, as to make up a whole
Army, much more to make many Armies to fight with so many several
Nations; nay, if this could be, yet it is not possible to get so
many dead and undissolved Bodies in one Nation; and for
transporting them out of other Nations, it would be a thing of
great difficulty and improbability: But put the case, said she, all
these difficulties could be overcome; yet there is one obstruction
or hindrance which can no ways be avoided: For although those dead
and undissolved Bodies did all die in one minute of time; yet
before they could Rendezvouze, and be put into a posture of War, to
make a great and formidable Army, they would stink and dissolve;
and when they came to a fight, they would moulder into dust and
ashes, and so leave the purer Immaterial Spirits naked: nay, were
it also possible, that those dead bodies could be preserved from
stinking and dissolving, yet the Souls of such Bodies would not
suffer Immaterial Spirits to rule and order them, but they would
enter and govern them themselves, as being the right owners
thereof, which would produce a War between those Immaterial Souls,
and the Immaterial Spirits in Material Bodies; all which would
hinder them from doing any service in the actions of War, against
the Enemies&#160;of my Native Countrey. You speak Reason, said the
Emperor, and I wish with all my Soul I could advise any manner or
way, that you might be able to assist it; but you having told me of
your dear Platonick Friend the Duchess of Newcastle and of her good
and profitable Counsels, I would desire you to send for her Soul,
and conferr with her about this business.

The Empress was very glad of this motion of the Emperor, and
immediately sent for the Soul of the said Duchess, which in a
minute waited on her Majesty. Then the Empress declared to her the
grievance and sadness of her mind, and how much she was troubled
and afflicted at the News brought her by the Immaterial Spirits,
desiring the Duchess, if possible, to assist her with the best
Counsels she could, that she might shew the greatness of her love
and affection which she bore to her Native Countrey. Whereupon the
Duchess promised her Majesty to do what lay in her power; and since
it was a business of great Importance, she desired some time to
consider of it; for, said she, Great Affairs require deep
Considerations; which the Empress willingly allowed her. And after
the Duchess had considered some little time, she desired the
Empress to send some of her Syrens or Mear men, to see what
passages they could find out of the Blazing-World, into the World
she came from; for, said she, if there be&#160;a passage for a Ship
to come out of that World into this; then certainly there may also
a Ship pass thorow the same passage out of this World into that.
Hereupon the Mear- or Fish-men were sent out; who being many in
number, employ'd all their industry, and did swim several ways; at
last having found out the passage, they returned to the Empress,
and told her, That as their Blazing World had but one Emperor, one
Government, one Religion, and one Language, so there was but one
Passage into that World, which was so little, that no Vessel bigger
than a Packet-Boat could go thorow; neither was that Passage always
open, but sometimes quite frozen up. At which Relation both the
Empress and Duchess seemed somewhat troubled, fearing that this
would perhaps be an hindrance or obstruction to their Design.

At last the Duchess desired the Empress to send for her
Ship-wrights, and all her Architects, which were Giants; who being
called, the Duchess told them how some in her own World had been so
ingenious, as to contrive Ships that could swim under Water, and
asked, Whether they could do the like? The Giants answered, They
had never heard of that Invention; nevertheless, they would try
what might be done by Art, and spare no labour or industry to find
it out. In the mean time, while both the Empress and Duchess were
in a serious Counsel,&#160;after many debates, the Duchess desired
but a few Ships to transport some of the Bird- Worm- and Bear- men:
Alas! said the Empress, What can such sorts of Men do in the other
World? especially so few? They will be soon destroyed, for a Musket
will destroy numbers of Birds in one shot. The Duchess said, I
desire your Majesty will have but a little patience, and relie upon
my advice, and you shall not fail to save your own Native Country,
and in a manner become a Mistress of all that World you came from.
The Empress, who loved the Duchess as her own Soul, did so; the
Giants returned soon after, and told her Majesty, that they had
found out the Art which the Duchess had mentioned, to make such
Ships as could swim under water; which the Empress and Duchess were
both very glad at, and when the Ships were made ready, the Duchess
told the Empress, that it was requisite that her Majesty should go
her self in body, as well as in Soul; but I, said she, can onely
wait on your Majesty after a Spiritual manner, that is, with my
Soul. Your Soul, said the Empress, shall live with my Soul, in my
Body; for I shall onely desire your Counsel and Advice. Then said
the Duchess, Your Majesty must command a great number of your
Fish-men to wait on your Ships; for you know that your Ships are
not made for Cannons, and therefore are no ways serviceable in War;
for though by the help of your Engines, they can drive on, and your
Fish-men may by the&#160;help of Chains and Ropes, draw them which
way they will, to make them go on, or flye back, yet not so as to
fight: And though your Ships be of Gold, and cannot be shot thorow,
but onely bruised and battered; yet the Enemy will assault and
enter them, and take them as Prizes; wherefore your Fishmen must do
you Service instead of Cannons. But how, said the Empress, can the
Fish-men do me service against an Enemy, without Cannons and all
sorts of Arms? That is the reason, answered the Duchess, that I
would have numbers of Fish-men, for they shall destroy all your
Enemies Ships, before they can come near you. The Empress asked in
what manner that could be? Thus, answered the Duchess: Your Majesty
must send a number of Worm-men to the Burning-Mountains (for you
have good store of them in the Blazing-World) which must get a
great quantity of the Fire-stone, whose property, you know, is,
that it burns so long as it is wet; and the Ships in the other
World being all made of Wood, they may by that means set them all
on fire; and if you can but destroy their Ships, and hinder their
Navigation, you will be Mistress of all that World, by reason most
parts thereof cannot live without Navigation. Besides, said she,
the Fire-stone will serve you instead of Light or Torches; for you
know, that the World you are going into, is dark at nights
(especially if there be no&#160;Moon-shine, or if the Moon be
overshadowed by Clouds) and not so full of Blazing-Stars as this
World is, which make as great a light in the absence of the Sun, as
the Sun doth when it is present; for that World hath but little
blinking Stars, which make more shadows then light, and are onely
able to draw up Vapours from the Earth, but not to rarifie or
clarifie them, or to convert them into serene air.

This Advice of the Duchess was very much approved; and joyfully
embraced by the Empress, who forthwith sent her Worm-men to get a
good quantity of the mentioned Fire-stone. she also commanded
numbers of Fish-men to wait on her under Water, and Bird-men to
wait on her in the Air; and Bear- and Worm-men to wait on her in
Ships, according to the Duchess's advice; and indeed the Bear-men
were as serviceable to her, as the North Star; but the Bird-men
would often rest themselves upon the Deck of the Ships; neither
would the Empress, being of a sweet and noble Nature, suffer that
they should tire or weary themselves by long flights; for though by
Land they did often fly out of one Countrey into another, yet they
did rest in some Woods, or on some Grounds, especially at night,
when it was their sleeping time: And therefore the Empress was
forced to take a great many Ships along with her, both for
transporting those several sorts of her loyal&#160;and serviceable
Subjects, and to carry provisions for them: Besides, she was so
wearied with the Petitions of several others of her Subjects who
desired to wait on her Majesty, that she could not possibly deny
them all; for some would rather chuse to be drowned, then not
tender their duty to her.

Thus after all things were made fit and ready, the Empress began
her Journey; I cannot properly say, she set Sail, by reason in some
Part, as in the passage between the two Worlds (which yet was but
short) the Ships were drawn under water by the Fish-men with Golden
Chains, so that they had no need of Sails there, nor of any other
Arts, but onely to keep out water from entering into the Ships, and
to give or make so much Air as would serve, for breath or
respiration, those Land-Animals that were in the Ships; which the
Giants had so Artificially contrived, that they which were therein,
found no inconveniency at all: And after they had passed the Icy
Sea, the Golden Ships appeared above Water, and so went on until
they came near the Kingdom that was the Empress's Native Countrey;
where the Bear-men through their Telescopes discovered a great
number of Ships which had beset all that Kingdom, well rigg'd and
mann'd.

The Empress before she came in sight of the Enemy, sent some of
her Fish- and Bird-men to bring her intelligence of their Fleet;
and hearing of their&#160;number, their station and posture, she
gave order that when it was Night, her Bird-men should carry in
their beeks some of the mentioned Fire-stones, with the tops
thereof wetted; and the Fish-men should carry them likewise, and
hold them out of the Water; for they were cut in the form of
Torches or Candles, and being many thousands, made a terrible shew;
for it appear'd as if all the Air and Sea had been of a
Flaming-Fire; and all that were upon the Sea, or near it, did
verily believe, the time of Judgment, or the Last Day was come,
which made them all fall down, and Pray.

At the break of Day, the Empress commanded those Lights to be
put out, and then the Naval Forces of the Enemy perceived nothing
but a Number of Ships without Sails, Guns, Arms, and other
Instruments of War; which Ships seemed to swim of themselves,
without any help or assistance: which sight put them into a great
amaze; neither could they perceive that those Ships were of Gold,
by reason the Empress had caused them all to be coloured black, or
with a dark colour; so that the natural colour of the Gold could
not be perceived through the artificial colour of the paint, no not
by the best Telescopes. All which put the Enemies Fleet into such a
fright at night, and to such wonder in the morning, or at day-time,
that they know not what to judg or make of them; for they know
neither what&#160;Ships they were, nor what Party they belonged to,
insomuch that they had no power to stir.

In the mean while, the Empress knowing the Colours of her own
Country, sent a Letter to their General, and the rest of the chief
Commanders, to let them know, that she was a great and powerful
Princess, and came to assist them against their Enemies: wherefore
she desired they should declare themselves, when they would have
her help and assistance.

