
Thus the Empress did not onely save her Native Country, but made
it the Absolute Monarchy of all that World; and both the effects of
her Power and her Beauty, did kindle a great desire in all the
greatest Princes to see her; who hearing that she was resolved to
return into her own Blazing-World, they all entreated the favour,
that they might wait on her Majesty before she went. The Empress
sent word, That she should be glad to grant their Requests; but
having no other place of Reception for them, she desired that they
would be pleased to come into the open Seas with their Ships, and
make a Circle of a pretty large compass, and then her own Ships
should meet them, and close up the Circle, and she would present
her self to the view of all those that came to see her: Which
Answer was joyfully received by all the mentioned Princes, who
came, some sooner, and some later, each according to the distance
of his Countrey, and the length of the voyage. And being all met in
the form and manner aforesaid, the Empress appeared upon the face
of the Water in her Imperial Robes; in some part of her hair, near
her face, she had placed some of the Starr- Stone, which added such
a luster and glory to it, that it caused a great admiration in all
that were present, who believed her to be some Celestial Creature,
or&#160;rather an uncreated Goddess, and they all had a desire to
worship her; for surely, said they, no mortal creature can have
such a splendid and transcendent beauty, nor can any have so great
a power as she has, to walk upon the Waters, and to destroy
whatever she pleases, not onely whole Nations, but a whole
World.

The Empress expressed to her own Countrymen, who were also her
Interpreters to the rest of the Princes that were present, That she
would give them an Entertainment at the darkest time of Night:
Which being come, the Fire-Stones were lighted, which made both Air
and Seas appear of a bright shining flame, insomuch that they put
all Spectators into an extream fright, who verily believed they
should all be destroyed; which the Empress perceiving, caused all
the Lights of the Fire-Stones to be put out, and onely shewed her
self in her Garments of Light. The Bird-men carried her upon their
backs into the Air, and there she appear'd as glorious as the Sun.
Then she was set down upon the Seas again, and presently there was
heard the most melodious and sweetest Consort of Voices, as ever
was heard out of the Seas, which was made by the Fish- men; this
Consort was answered by another, made by the Bird-men in the Air,
so that it seem'd as if Sea and Air had spoke, and answered each
other by way of Singing-Dialogues, or after the manner&#160;of
those Playes that are acted by singing-Voices.

But when it was upon break of day, the Empress ended her
Entertainment, and at full day-light all the Princes perceived that
she went into the Ship wherein the Prince and Monarch of her Native
Country was, the King of Esfi, with whom she had several
Conferences; and having assured Him of the readiness of her
Assistance whensoever he required it, telling Him withal, That she
wanted no Intelligence, she went forth again upon the Waters, and
being in the midst of the Circle made by those Ships that were
present, she desired them to draw somewhat nearer, that they might
hear her speak; which being done, she declared her self in this
following manner:

Great, Heroick, and Famous Monarchs, I come hither to assist the
King of Esfi against his Enemies, He being unjustly assaulted by
many several Nations, which would fain take away His Hereditary
Rights, and Prerogatives of the Narrow Seas; at which Unjustice,
Heaven was much displeased, and for the Injuries He received from
His Enemies, rewarded Him with an Absolute Power, so that now he is
become the Head-Monarch of all this World; which Power, though you
may envy, yet you can no wayes hinder Him; for all those that
endeavour to resist His Power, shall onely get Loss for their
Labour, and no Victory for their Profit. Wherefore my advice to you
all is, To pay him Tribute justly and truly, that you may&#160;live
Peaceably and Happily, and be rewarded with the Blessings of
Heaven: which I wish you from my Soul.

After the Empress had thus finished her Speech to the Princes of
the several Nations of that World, she desired that in their Ships
might fall back; which being done, her own Fleet came into the
Circle, without any visible assistance of Sails or Tide; and her
self being entred into her own Ship, the whole Fleet sunk
immediately into the bottom of the Seas, and left all the
Spectators in a deep amazement; neither would she suffer any of her
Ships to come above the Waters, until she arrived into the
Blazing-World.

In time of the Voyage, both the Empress's and the Duchess's
Soul, were very gay and merry; and sometimes they would converse
very seriously with each other. Amongst the rest of their
discourses, the Duchess said, she wondred much at one thing, which
was, That since her Majesty had found out a passage out of the
Blazing-World, into the World she came from, she did not enrich
that part of the World where she was born, at least her own Family,
though she had enough to enrich the whole World. The Empress's Soul
answered, That she loved her Native Countrey, and her own Family,
as well as any Creature could do; and that this was the reason why
she would not enrich them: for, said she, not only particular
Families or Nations,&#160;but all the World, their Natures are
such, that much Gold, and great store of Riches, makes them mad;
insomuch as they endeavour to destroy each other for Gold or Riches
sake. The reason thereof is, said the Duchess, that they have too
little Gold and Riches, which makes them so eager to have it. No,
replied the Empress's Soul, their particular Covetousness, is
beyond all the wealth of the richest World, and the more Riches
they have, the more Covetous they are; for their Covetousness is
Infinite. But, said she, I would there could a Passage be found out
of the Blazing-World, into the World whence you came, and I would
willingly give you as much Riches as you desir'd. The Duchess's
Soul gave her Majesty humble thanks for her great Favour; and told
her, that she was not covetous, nor desir'd any more wealth than
what her Lord and Husband had before the Civil-Warrs. Neither, said
she, should I desire it for my own, but my Lord's Posterities sake.
Well, said the Empress, I'le command my Fish-men to use all their
Skill and Industry to find out a Passage into that World which your
Lord and Husband is in. I do verily believe, answered the Duchess,
that there will be no Passage found into that World; but if there
were any, I should not Petition your Majesty for Gold and Jewels,
but only for the Elixir that grows in the midst of the Golden
Sands, for to preserve Life and Health; but without a Passage, it
is impossible to carry away any&#160;of it: for, whatsoever is
Material, cannot travel like Immaterial Beings, such as Souls and
Spirits are. Neither do Souls require any such thing that might
revive them, or prolong their Lives, by reason they are
unalterable: for, were Souls like Bodies, then my Soul might have
had the benefit of that Natural Elixir that grows in your
Blazing-World. I wish earnestly, said the Empress, that a Passage
might be found, and then both your Lord and your self, should
neither want Wealth, nor Long-life: nay, I love you so well, that I
would make you as Great and Powerful a Monarchess, as I am of the
Blazing-World. The Duchess's Soul humbly thank'd her Majesty, and
told her, That she acknowledged and esteemed her Love beyond all
things that are in Nature.

After this Discourse, they had many other Conferences, which for
brevity's sake I'le forbear to rehearse. At last, after several
Questions which the Empress's Soul asked the Duchess, she desired
to know the reason why she did take such delight, when she was
joyned to her Body, in being singular both in Accoustrements,
Behaviour, and Discourse? The Duchess's Soul answered, she
confessed that it was extravagant, and beyond what was usual and
ordinary: but yet her ambition being such, that she would not be
like others in any thing, if it were possible, I endeavour, said
she, to be as singular as I can: for, it argues but a mean Nature,
to imitate others: and though I do not love to be&#160;imitated, if
I can possibly avoid it; yet, rather than imitate others, I should
chuse to be imitated by others: for my Nature is such, that I had
rather appear worse in Singularity, than better in the Mode. If you
were not a great Lady, replied the Empress, you would never pass in
the World for a wise Lady: for, the World would say, your
Singularities are Vanities. The Duchess's Soul answered, she did
not at all regard the Censure of this, or any other Age, concerning
Vanities: but, said she, neither this present, nor any of the
future Ages, can or will truly say, that I am not Vertuous and
Chast: for I am confident, all that were, or are acquainted with
me, and all the Servants which ever I had, will or can upon their
oaths declare my actions no otherwise than Vertuous: and certainly,
there's none even of the meanest Degree, which have not their Spies
and Witnesses, much more those of the Nobler sort, which seldom or
never are without Attendants; so that their Faults (if they have
any) will easily be known, and as easily be divulged. Wherefore,
happy are those Natures that are Honest, Vertuous, and Noble; not
only happy to themselves, but happy to their Families. But, said
the Empress, if you glory so much in your Honesty and Vertue, how
comes it that you plead for Dishonest and Wicked persons, in your
Writings? The Duchess answered, It was only to shew her Wit, not
her Nature.

At last the Empress arrived into the Blazing-world, and coming
to her Imperial Palace, you may sooner imagine than expect that I
should express the joy which the Emperor had at her safe return;
for he loved her beyond his Soul; and there was no love lost, for
the Empress equal'd his Affection with no less love to him. After
the time of rejoicing with each other, the Duchess's Soul begg'd
leave to return to her Noble Lord: But the Emperor desired, that
before she departed, she would see how he had employed his time in
the Empress's absence; for he had built Stables and Riding-Houses,
and desired to have Horses of Manage, such as, according to the
Empress's Relation, the Duke of Newcastlehad: The Emperor enquired
of the Duchess, the Form and Structure of her Lord and Husband's
Stables and Riding-House. The Duchess answer'd his Majesty, That
they were but plain and ordinary; but, said she, had my Lord
Wealth, I am sure he would not spare it, in rendring his Buildings
as Noble as could be made. Hereupon the Emperor shewed the Duchess
the Stables he had built, which were most stately and magnificent;
among the rest, there was one double Stable that held a Hundred
Horses on a side, the main Building was of Gold, lined with several
sorts of precious Materials; the Roof was Arched with Agats, the
sides of the Walls were lined with Cornelian, the Floor was paved
with Amber, the Mangers&#160;were Mother of Pearl; the Pillars, as
also the middle Isle or Walk of the Stables, were of Crystal; the
Front and Gate was of Turquois, most neatly cut and carved. The
Riding-House was lined with Saphirs, Topases, and the like; the
Floor was all of Golden-Sand so finely sifted, that it was
extreamly soft, and not in the least hurtful to the Horses feet,
and the Door and Frontispiece was of Emeralds curiously carved.

After the view of these Glorious and Magnificent Buildings,
which the Duchess's Soul was much delighted withall, she resolved
to take her leave; but the Emperor desired her to stay yet some
short time more, for they both loved her company so well, that they
were unwilling to have her depart so soon: several Conferences and
Discourses pass'd between them; amongst the rest, the Emperor
desir'd her advice how to set up a Theatre for Plays. The Duchess
confessed her Ignorance in this Art, telling his Majesty that she
knew nothing of erecting Theatres or Scenes, but what she had by an
Immaterial Observation, when she was with the Empress's Soul in the
chief City of E. Entring into one of their Theatres, whereof the
Empress could give as much account to his Majesty, as her self. But
both the Emperor and the Empress told the Duchess, That she could
give directions how to make Plays. The Duchess answered, That she
had as little skill to form a Play after the Mode, as she had to
paint or make a&#160;Scene for shew. But you have made Plays,
replied the Empress: Yes, answered the Duchess, I intended them for
Plays; but the Wits of these present times condemned them as
uncapable of being represented or acted, because they were not made
up according to the Rules of Art; though I dare say, That the
Descriptions are as good as any they have writ. The Emperor asked,
Whether the Property of Plays were not to describe the several
Humours, Actions and Fortunes of Mankind? 'Tis so, answered the
Duchess. Why then, replied the Emperor, the natural Humours,
Actions and Fortunes of Mankind, are not done by the Rules of Art:
But, said the Duchess, it is the Art and Method of our Wits to
despise all Descriptions of Wit, Humour, Actions and Fortunes that
are without such Artificial Rules. The Emperor asked, Are those
good Plays that are made so Methodically and Artificially? The
Duchess answer'd, They were Good according to the Judgment of the
Age, or Mode of the Nation, but not according to her Judgment: for
truly, said she, in my Opinion, their Plays will prove a Nursery of
whining Lovers, and not an Academy or School for Wise, Witty, Noble
and well-behaved men. But I, replied the Emperor, desire such a
Theatre as may make wise Men; and will have such Descriptions as
are Natural, not Artificial. If your Majesty be of that Opinion,
said the Duchess's&#160;Soul, then my Playes may be acted in your
Blazing- World, when they cannot be acted in the Blinking-World of
Wit; and the next time I come to visit your Majesty, I shall
endeavour to order your Majesty's Theatre, to present such Playes
as my Wit is capable to make. Then the Empress told the Duchess,
That she loved a foolish Farse added to a wise Play. The Duchess
answered, That no World in Nature had fitter Creatures for it than
the Blazing-World: for, said she, the Lowse- men, the Bird-men, the
Spider- and Fox-men, the Ape-men and Satyrs appear in a Farse
extraordinary pleasant.

Hereupon both the Emperor and Empress intreated the Duchess's
Soul to stay so long with them, till she had ordered her Theatre,
and made Playes and Farses fit for them; for they onely wanted that
sort of Recreation: but the Duchess's Soul begg'd their Majesties
to give her leave to go into her Native World; for she long'd to be
with her dear Lord and Husband, promising, that after a short time
she would return again. Which being granted, though with much
difficulty, she took her leave with all Civility and Respect, and
so departed from their Majesties.

