After the Duchess's return into her own body, she entertained
her Lord (when he was pleased to hear such kind of Discourses) with
Foreign Relations;&#160;but he was never displeased to hear of the
Empress's kind Commendations, and of the Characters she was pleased
to give of him to the Emperor. Amongst other Relations, she told
him all what had past between the Empress, and the several Monarchs
of that World whither she went with the Empress; and how she had
subdued them to pay Tribute and Homage to the Monarch of that
Nation or Kingdom to which she owed both her Birth and Education.
she also related to her Lord what Magnificent Stables and
Riding-Houses the Emperor had built, and what fine Horses were in
the Blazing-world, of several shapes and sizes, and how exact their
shapes were in each sort, and of many various Colours, and fine
Marks, as if they had been painted by Art, with such Coats or
Skins, that they had a far greater gloss and smoothness than Satin;
and were there but a passage out of the Blazingworld into this,
said she, you should not onely have some of those Horses, but such
Materials as the Emperor has, to build your Stables and
Riding-Houses withall; and so much Gold, that I should never repine
at your Noble and Generous Gifts. The Duke smilingly answered her,
That he was sorry there was no Passage between those two Worlds;
but, said he, I have always found an Obstruction to my Good
Fortunes.

One time the Duchess chanced to discourse with some of her
acquaintance, of the Empress of the Blazing-world, who asked her
what Pastimes and Recreations her Majesty did most delight in? The
Duchess answered, That she spent most of her time in the study of
Natural Causes and Effects, which was her chief delight and
pastime; and that she loved to discourse sometimes with the most
Learned persons of that World: And to please the Emperor and his
Nobles, who were all of the Royal Race, she went often abroad to
take the air, but seldom in the day-time, always at night, if it
might be called Night; for, said she, the Nights there, are as
light as Days, by reason of the numerous Blazing-Starrs, which are
very splendorous, onely their Light is whiter than the Sun's Light;
and as the Sun's Light is hot, so their Light is cool; not so cool
as our twinkling Starr-light, nor is their Sun-light so hot as
ours, but more rate: And that part of the Blazing-world where the
Empress resides, is always clear, and never subject to any Storms,
Tempests, Fogs or Mists, but has onely refreshing-Dews that nourish
the Earth: The air of it is sweet and temperate, and, as I said
before, as much light in the Sun's absence, as in its presence,
which makes that time we call Night, more pleasant there than the
Day: And sometimes the Empress goes abroad by Water in Barges,
sometimes by Land in Chariots, and sometimes on Horse-back; her
Royal&#160;Chariots are very Glorious, the Body is one intire green
Diamond; the four small Pillars that bear up the Top-cover, are
four white Diamonds, cut in the form thereof; the top or roof of
the Chariot, is one intire blew Diamond, and at the four corners
are great springs of Rubies; the Seat is made of Cloth of Gold,
stuffed with Ambergreece beaten small: the Chariot is drawn by
Twelve Unicorns, whose Trappings are all Chains of Pearl; and as
for her Barges, they are onely of Gold. Her Guard of State (for she
needs none for security, there being no Rebels or Enemies) consists
of Giants, but they seldom wait on their Majesties abroad, because
their extraordinary height and bigness does hinder their prospect.
Her Entertainment when she is upon the Water, is the Musick of the
Fish- and Bird-men; and by Land are Horse and Foot-matches; for the
Empress takes much delight in making Race-matches with the Emperor,
and the Nobility; some Races are between the Fox- and Ape-men,
which sometimes the Satyrs strive to outrun; and some are between
the Spider-men and Licemen. Also there are several Flight-matches,
between the several sorts of Bird-men, and the several sorts of
Fly-men; and swimming-matches, between the several sorts of
Fish-men. The Emperor, Empress, and their Nobles, take also great
delight to have Collations; for in the Blazing-world, there are
most delicious Fruits of all sorts, and some such as in
this&#160;World were never seen nor tasted; for there are most
tempting sorts of Fruit: After their Collations are ended, they
Dance; and if they be upon the Water, they dance upon the Water,
there lying so many Fish-men so close and thick together, as they
can dance very evenly and easily upon their backs, and need not
fear drowning. Their Musick, both Vocal and Instrumental, is
according to their several places: Upon the Water, it is of
Water-Instruments, as shells filled with Water, and so moved by
Art, which is a very sweet and delightful harmony; and those Dances
which they dance upon the Water, are, for the most part, such as we
in this World call swimming- Dances, where they do not lift up
their feet high: In Lawns, or upon Plains, they have
Wind-Instruments, but much better than those in our World: And when
they dance in the Woods, they have Horn-Instruments, which although
they are of a sort of Wind-Instruments, yet they are of another
Fashion than the former: In their Houses they have such Instruments
as are somewhat like our Viols, Violins, Theorboes, Lutes,
Citherins, Gittars, Harpsichords, and the like; but yet so far
beyond them, that the difference cannot well be exprest; and as
their places of Dancing, and their Musick is different, so is their
manner or way of Dancing. In these and the like Recreations, the
Emperor, Empress, and the Nobility pass their time.




