


The Description of a New World, Called
The Blazing-World.


A Merchant travelling into a foreign Country, fell extreamly in
Love with a young Lady; but being a stranger in that Nation, and
beneath her, both in Birth and Wealth, he could have but little
hopes of obtaining his desire; however his Love growing more and
more vehement upon him, even to the slighting of all difficulties,
he resolved at last to Steal her away; which he had the better
opportunity to do, because her Father's house was not far from the
Sea,&#160;and she often using to gather shells upon the shore
accompanied not with above two to three of her servants it
encouraged him the more to execute his design. Thus coming one time
with a little leight Vessel, not unlike a Packet-boat, mann'd with
some few Sea-men, and well victualled, for fear of some accidents,
which might perhaps retard their journey, to the place where she
used to repair; he forced her away: But when he fancied himself the
happiest man of the World, he proved to be the most unfortunate;
for Heaven frowning at his Theft, raised such a Tempest, as they
knew not what to do, or whither to steer their course; so that the
Vessel, both by its own leightness, and the violent motion of the
Wind, was carried as swift as an Arrow out of a Bow, towards the
North-pole, and in a short time reached the Icy Sea, where the wind
forced it amongst huge pieces of Ice; but being little, and leight,
it did by the assistance and favour of the gods to this virtuous
Lady, so turn and wind through those precipices, as if it had been
guided by some experienced Pilot, and skilful Mariner: But alas!
Those few men which were in it, not knowing whither they went, nor
what was to be done in so strange an Adventure, and not being
provided for so cold a Voyage, were all frozen to death; the young
Lady onely, by the light of her Beauty, the heat of her Youth, and
Protection of the Gods, remaining alive: Neither was it a wonder
that the men did freeze to death; for they were not
onely&#160;driven to the very end or point of the Pole of that
World, but even to another Pole of another World, which joined
close to it; so that the cold having a double strength at the
conjunction of those two Poles, was insupportable: At last, the
Boat still passing on, was forced into another World; for it is
impossible to round this Worlds Globe from Pole to Pole, so as we
do from East to West; because the Poles of the other World, joining
to the Poles of this, do not allow any further passage to surround
the World that way; but if any one arrives to either of these
Poles, he is either forced to return, or to enter into another
World: and lest you should scruple at it, and think, if it were
thus, those that live at the Poles would either see two Suns at one
time, or else they would never want the Sun's light for six months
together, as it is commonly believed: You must know, that each of
these Worlds having its own Sun to enlighten it, they move each one
in their peculiar Circles; which motion is so just and exact, that
neither can hinder or obstruct the other; for they do not exceed
their Tropicks: and although they should meet, yet we in this World
cannot so well perceive them, by reason of the brightness of our
Sun, which being nearer to us, obstructs the splendor of the Sun of
the other World, they being too far off to be discerned by our
optick perception, except we use very good Telescopes; by which,
skilful Astronomers have often observed two or three Suns at
once.&#160;But to return to the wandering Boat, and the distresed
Lady; she seeing all the Men dead, found small comfort in life;
their Bodies which were preserved all that while from putrefaction
and stench, by the extremity of cold, began now to thaw, and
corrupt; whereupon she having not strength enough to fling them
over-board, was forced to remove out of her small Cabine, upon the
deck, to avoid the nauseous smell; and finding the Boat swim
between two plains of Ice, as a stream that runs betwixt two
shores, at last perceived land, but covered all with Snow: from
which came, walking upon the Ice, strange Creatures, in shape like
Bears, only they went upright as men; those Creatures coming near
the Boat, catched hold of it with their Paws, that served them
instead of hands; some two or three of them entred first; and when
they came out, the rest went in one after another; at last having
viewed and observed all that was in the Boat, they spake to each
other in a language which the Lady did not understand; and having
carried her out of the Boat, sunk it, together with the dead
men.

The Lady now finding her self in so strange a place, and amongst
such wonderful kind of Creatures, was extreamly strucken with fear,
and could entertain no other Thoughts, but that every moment her
life was to be a sacrifice to their cruelty; but those Bear-like
Creatures, how terrible soever they appear'd to her sight, yet were
they so far from exercising any cruelty&#160;upon her, that rather
they shewed her all civility and kindness imaginable; for she being
not able to go upon the Ice, by reason of its slipperiness, they
took her up in their rough arms, and carried her into their City,
where instead of Houses, they had Caves under ground; and as soon
as they enter'd the City, both Males and Females, young and old,
flockt together to see this Lady, holding up their Paws in
admiration; at last having brought her into a certain large and
spacious Cave, which they intended for her reception, they left her
to the custody of the Females, who entertained her with all
kindness and respect, and gave her such victuals as they used to
eat; but seeing her Constitution neither agreed with the temper of
that Climate, nor their Diet, they were resolved to carry her into
another Island of a warmer temper; in which were men like Foxes,
onely walking in an upright shape, who received their neighbours
the Bear-men with great civility and Courtship, very much admiring
this beauteous Lady; and having discoursed some while together,
agreed at last to make her a Present to the Emperor of their World;
to which end, after she had made some short stay in the same place,
they brought her cross that Island to a large River, whose stream
run smooth and clear, like Chrystal; in which were numerous Boats,
much like our Fox-traps; in one whereof she was carried, some of
the Bear- and Fox-men waiting on her; and as soon as they
had&#160;crossed the River, they came into an Island where there
were Men which had heads, beaks and feathers, like wild-Geese,
onely they went in an upright shape, like the Bear-men and Fox-men:
their rumps they carried between their legs, their wings were of
the same length with their Bodies, and their tails of an
indifferent size, trailing after them like a Ladie's Garment; and
after the Bear- and Fox-men had declared their intention and design
to their Neighbours, the Geese- or Bird-men, some of them joined to
the rest, and attended the Lady through that Island, till they came
to another great and large River, where there was a preparation
made of many Boats, much like Birds nests, onely of a bigger size;
and having crost that River, they arrived into another Island,
which was of a pleasant and mild temper, full of Woods and the
Inhabitants thereof were Satyrs, who received both the Bear- Fox-
and Bird men, with all respect and civility; and after some
conferences (for they all understood each others language) some
chief of the Satyrs joining to them, accompanied the Lady out of
that Island to another River, wherein were many handsome and
commodious Barges; and having crost that River, they entered into a
large and spacious Kingdom, the men whereof were of a Grass-Green
Complexion, who entertained them very kindly, and provided all
conveniences for their further voyage: hitherto they had onely
crost Rivers, but now they&#160;could not avoid the open Seas any
longer; wherefore they made their Ships and tacklings ready to sail
over into the Island, where the Emperor of the Blazing- world (for
so it was call'd) kept his residence. Very good Navigators they
were; and though they had no knowledg of the Load-stone, or Needle
or pendulous Watches, yet (which was as serviceable to them) they
had subtile observations, and great practice; in so much that they
could not onely tell the depth of the Sea in every place, but where
there were shelves of Sand, Rocks, and other obstructions to be
avoided by skilful and experienced Sea-men: Besides, they were
excellent Augurers, which skill they counted more necessary and
beneficial then the use of Compasses, Cards, Watches, and the like;
but, above the rest, they had an extraordinary Art, much to be
taken notice of by Experimental Philosophers, and that was a
certain Engin, which would draw in a great quantity of Air, and
shoot forth Wind with a great force; this Engine in a calm, they
placed behind their Ships, and in a storm, before; for it served
against the raging waves, like Cannons against an hostile Army, or
besieged Town; it would batter and beat the waves in pieces, were
they as high as Steeples; and as soon as a breach was made, they
forced their passage through, in spight even of the most furious
wind, using two of those Engins at every Ship, one before, to beat
off the waves, and another behind to drive it on; so that the
artificial wind had the&#160;better of the natural; for, it had a
greater advantage of the waves, then the natural of the Ships: the
natural being above the face of the Water, could not without a down
right motion enter or press into the Ships; whereas the artificial
with a sideward-motion, did pierce into the bowels of the Waves:
Moreover, it is to be observed, that in a great Tempest they would
join their Ships in battel-aray: and when they feared Wind and
Waves would be too strong for them, if they divided their Ships;
they joined as many together as the compass or advantage of the
places of the Liquid Element would give them leave. For, their
Ships were so ingeniously contrived, that they could fasten them
together as close as a Honey-comb, without waste of place; and
being thus united, no Wind nor Waves were able to separate them.
The Emperor's Ships, were all of Gold; but the Merchants and
Skippers, of Leather; the Golden Ships were not much heavier then
ours of Wood, by reason they were neatly made, and required not
such thickness, neither were they troubled with Pitch, Tar, Pumps,
Guns, and the like, which make our Woodden-Ships very heavy; for
though they were not all of a piece, yet they were so well
sodder'd, that there was no fear of Leaks, Chinks, or Clefts; and
as for Guns, there was no use of them, because they had no other
enemies but the Winds: But the Leather Ships were not altogether so
sure, although much leighter; besides, they were pitched to keep
out Water.

Having thus prepar'd, and order'd their Navy, they went on in
despight of Calm or Storm: And though the Lady at first fancied her
self in a very sad condition, and her mind was much tormented with
doubts and fears, not knowing whether this strange Adventure would
tend to her safety or destruction; yet she being withal of a
generous spirit, and ready wit, considering what dangers she had
past, and finding those sorts of men civil and diligent attendants
to her, took courage, and endeavoured to learn their language;
which after she had obtained so far, that partly by some words and
signs she was able to apprehend their meaning, she was so far from
being afraid of them, that she thought her self not onely safe, but
very happy in their company: By which we may see, that Novelty
discomposes the mind, but acquaintance settles it in peace and
tranquillity. At last, having passed by several rich Islands and
Kingdoms, they went towards Paradise, which was the seat of the
Emperor; and coming in sight of it, rejoiced very much; the Lady at
first could perceive nothing but high Rocks, which seemed to touch
the Skies; and although they appear'd not of an equal heigth, yet
they seemed to be all one piece, without partitions: but at last
drawing nearer, she perceived a clift, which was a part of those
Rocks, out of which she spied coming forth a great number of Boats,
which afar off shewed like a company of Ants, marching one after
another; the Boats appeared like the holes or&#160;partitions in a
Honey-comb, and when joined together, stood as close; the men were
of several Complexions, but none like any of our World; and when
both the Boats and Ships met, they saluted and spake to each other
very courteously; for there was but one language in all that World:
nor no more but one Emperor, to whom they all submitted with the
greatest duty and obedience, which made them live in a continued
Peace and Happiness; not acquainted with Foreign Wars or Home-bred
Insurrections. The Lady now being arrived at this place, was
carried out of her Ship into one of those Boats, and conveighed
through the same passage (for there was no other) into that part of
the World where the Emperor did reside; which part was very
pleasant, and of a mild temper: Within it self it was divided by a
great number of vast and large Rivers, all ebbing and flowing, into
several Islands of unequal distance from each other, which in most
parts were as pleasant, healthful, rich, and fruitful, as Nature
could make them; and, as I mentioned before, secure from all
Foreign Invasions, by reason there was but one way to enter, and
that like a Labyrinth, so winding and turning among the Rocks, that
no other Vessels but small Boats, could pass, carrying not above
three passengers at a time: On each side all along the narrow and
winding River, there were several Cities, some of Marble, some of
Alabaster, some of Agat, some of Amber, some of Coral, and some of
other&#160;precious materials not known in our world; all which
after the Lady had passed, she came to the Imperial City, named
Paradise, which appeared in form like several Islands; for, Rivers
did run betwixt every street, which together with the Bridges,
whereof there was a great number, were all paved. The City it self
was built of Gold; and their Architectures were noble, stately, and
magnificent, not like our Modern, but like those in the Romans
time; for, our Modern Buildings are like those Houses which
Children use to make of Cards, one story above another, fitter for
Birds, then Men; but theirs were more Large, and Broad, then high;
the highest of them did not exceed two stories, besides those rooms
that were under-ground, as Cellars, and other Offices. The
Emperor's Palace stood upon an indifferent ascent from the Imperial
City; at the top of which ascent was a broad Arch, supported by
several Pillars, which went round the Palace, and contained four of
our English miles in compass: within the Arch stood the Emperor's
Guard, which consisted of several sorts of Men; at every half mile,
was a Gate to enter, and every Gate was of a different fashion; the
first, which allowed a passage from the Imperial City into the
Palace, had on either hand a Cloyster, the outward part whereof
stood upon Arches sustained by Pillars, but the inner part was
close: Being entred through the Gate, the Palace it self appear'd
in its middle like the Isle of a Church, a mile and&#160;a half
long, and half a mile broad; the roof of it was all Arched, and
rested upon Pillars, so artificially placed that a stranger would
lose himself therein without a Guide; at the extream sides, that
is, between the outward and inward part of the Cloyster, were
Lodgings for Attendants; and in the midst of the Palace, the
Emperor's own Rooms; whose Lights were placed at the top of every
one, because of the heat of the Sun: the Emperor's appartment for
State was no more inclosed then the rest; onely an Imperial Throne
was in every appartment, of which the several adornments could not
be perceived until one entered, because the Pillars were so just
opposite to one another, that all the adornments could not be seen
at one. The first part of the Palace was, as the Imperial City, all
of Gold; and when it came to the Emperors appartment, it was so
rich with Diamonds, Pearls, Rubies, and the like precious Stones,
that it surpasses my skill to enumerate them all. Amongst the rest,
the Imperial Room of State appear'd most magnificent; it was paved
with green Diamonds (for there are in that World Diamonds of all
Colours) so artificially, as it seemed but of one piece; the
Pillars were set with Diamonds so close, and in such a manner, that
they appear'd most Glorious to the sight; between every Pillar was
a Bow or Arch of a certain sort of Diamonds, the like whereof our
World does not afford; which being placed in every one of the
Arches in several rows, seemed just like so many Rain-bows&#160;of
several different colours. The roof of the Arches was of blew
Diamonds, and in the midst thereof was a Carbuncle, which
represented the Sun; and the Rising and Setting-Sun at the East and
West-side of the Room were made of Rubies. Out of this Room there
was a passage into the Emperor's Bed-Chamber, the Walls whereof
were of Jet, and the Floor of black Marble; the Roof was of Mother
of Pearl, where the Moon and Blazing-Stars were represented by
white Diamonds, and his Bed was made of Diamonds and
Carbuncles.

No sooner was the Lady brought before the Emperor, but he
conceived her to be some Goddess, and offered to worship her; which
she refused, telling him, (for by that time she had pretty well
learned their Language) that although she came out of another
world, yet was she but a mortal. At which the Emperor rejoycing,
made her his Wife, and gave her an absolute power to rule and
govern all that World as she pleased. But her subjects, who could
hardly be perswaded to believe her mortal, tender'd her all the
Veneration and Worship due to a Deity.

Her Accoustrement after she was made Empress, was as followeth:
On her head she wore a Cap of Pearl, and a Half-moon of Diamonds
just before it; on the top of her Crown came spreading over a broad
Carbuncle, cut in the form of the Sun; her Coat was of Pearl, mixt
with blew Diamonds, and frindged&#160;with red ones; her Buskins
and Sandals were of green Diamonds; In her left hand she held a
Buckler, to signifie the Defence of her Dominions; which Buckler
was made of that sort of Diamond as has several different Colours;
and being cut and made in the form of an Arch, shewed like a
Rain-bow; In her right hand she carried a Spear made of white
Diamond, cut like the tail of a Blazing Star, which signified that
she was ready to assault those that proved her Enemies.

None was allowed to use or wear Gold but those of the Imperial
Race, which were the onely Nobles of the State; nor durst any one
wear Jewels but the Emperor, the Empress and their Eldest Son;
notwithstanding that they had an infinite quantity both of Gold and
precious Stones in that World; for they had larger extents of Gold,
then our Arabian Sands; their precious Stones were Rocks, and their
Diamonds of several Colours; they used no Coyn, but all their
Traffick was by exchange of several Commodities.

Their Priests and Governors were Princes of the Imperial Blood,
and made Eunuches for that purpose; and as for the ordinary sort of
men in that part of the World where the Emperor resided, they were
of several Complexions; not white, black, tawny, olive or
ash-coloured; but some appear'd of an Azure, some of a deep Purple,
some of a Grass-green, some of a Scarlet, some of an Orange-colour,
&amp;c. Which Colours and Complexions, whether they were made
by&#160;the bare reflection of light, without the assistance of
small particles; or by the help of well-ranged and order'd Atoms;
or by a continual agitation of little Globules; or by some pressing
and re-acting motion, I am not able to determine. The rest of the
Inhabitants of that World, were men of several different sorts,
shapes, figures, dispositions, and humors, as I have already made
mention, heretofore; some were Bear-men, some Worm-men, some Fish-
or Mear-men, otherwise called Syrens; some Bird-men, some Fly-men,
some Ant-men, some Geese-men, some Spider-men, some Lice-men, some
Fox-men, some Ape-men, some Jack daw-men, some Magpie-men, some
Parrot-men, some Satyrs, some Gyants, and many more, which I cannot
all remember; and of these several sorts of men, each followed such
a profession as was most proper for the nature of their Species,
which the Empress encouraged them in, especially those that had
applied themselves to the study of several Arts and Sciences; for
they were as ingenious and witty in the invention of profitable and
useful Arts, as we are in our world, nay, more; and to that end she
erected Schools, and founded several Societies. The Bear-men were
to be her Experimental Philosophers, the Bird-men her Astronomers,
the Fly- Worm- and Fish-men her Natural Philosophers, the Ape-men
her Chymists, the Satyrs her Galenick Physicians, the Fox-men her
Politicians, the Spider- and Lice-men her Mathematicians, the
Jackdaw- Magpie-&#160;and Parrot-men her Orators and Logicians, the
Gyants her Architects, &amp;c. But before all things, she having
got a Soveraign power from the Emperor over all the World, desired
to be informed both of the manner of their Religion and Government;
and to that end she called the Priests and States men, to give her
an account of either. Of the States men she enquired, first, Why
they had so few Laws? To which they answered, That many Laws made
many Divisions, which most commonly did breed Factions, and at last
brake out into open Wars. Next, she asked, Why they preferred the
Monarchical form of Government before any other? They answered,
That as it was natural for one Body to have but one Head, so it was
also natural for a Politick body to have but one Governor; and that
a Common-wealth, which had many Governors was like a Monster with
many Heads. Besides, said they, a Monarchy is a divine form of
Government, and agrees most with our Religion: For as there is but
one God, whom we all unanimously worship and adore with one Faith;
so we are resolved to have but one Emperor, to whom we all submit
with one obedience.

Then the Empress seeing that the several sorts of her Subjects
had each their Churches apart, asked the Priests, whether they were
of several Religions? They answered her Majesty, That there was no
more but one Religion in all that World, nor no diversity
of&#160;opinions in that same Religion for though there were
several sorts of men, yet had they all but one opinion concerning
the Worship and Adoration of God. The Empress asked them, Whether
they were Jews, Turks, or Christians? We do not know, said they,
what Religions those are; but we do all unanimously acknowledg,
worship and adore the Onely, Omnipotent, and Eternal God, with all
reverence, submission, and duty. Again, the Empress enquired,
Whether they had several Forms of Worship? They answered, No: For
our Devotion and Worship consists onely in Prayers, which we frame
according to our several Necessities, in Petitions, Humiliations,
Thanksgiving, &amp;c. Truly, replied the Empress, I thought you had
been either Jews, or Turks, because I never perceived any Women in
your Congregations: But what is the reason, you bar them from your
religious Assemblies? It is not fit, said they, that Men and Women
should be promiscuously together in time of Religious Worship; for
their company hinders Devotion, and makes many, instead of praying
to God, direct their Devotion to their Mistresses. But, asked the
Empress, Have they no Congregation of their own, to perform the
duties of Divine Worship, as well as Men? No, answered they: but
they stay at home, and say their Prayers by themselves in their
Closets. Then the Empress desir'd to know the reason why the
Priests and Governors of their World&#160;were made Eunuchs? They
answer'd, To keep them from Marriage: For Women and Children most
commonly make disturbance both in Church and State. But, said she,
Women and Children have no Employment in Church or State. 'Tis
true, answer'd they; but, although they are not admitted to publick
Employments, yet are they so prevalent with their Husbands and
Parents, that many times by their importunate perswasions, they
cause as much, nay, more mischief secretly, then if they had the
management of publick Affairs.

