


Chapter

12
Camp Laurence


Beth was postmistress, for, being most at home, she could attend
to it regularly, and dearly liked the daily task of unlocking the
little door and distributing the mail. One July day she came in
with her hands full, and went about the house leaving letters and
parcels like the penny post.

"Here's your posy, Mother! Laurie never forgets that," she said,
putting the fresh nosegay in the vase that stood in 'Marmee's
corner', and was kept supplied by the affectionate boy.

"Miss Meg March, one letter and a glove," continued Beth,
delivering the articles to her sister, who sat near her mother,
stitching wristbands.

"Why, I left a pair over there, and here is only one," said Meg,
looking at the gray cotton glove. "Didn't you drop the other in the
garden?"

"No, I'm sure I didn't, for there was only one in the
office."

"I hate to have odd gloves! Never mind, the other may be found.
My letter is only a translation of the German song I wanted. I
think Mr. Brooke did it, for this isn't Laurie's writing."

Mrs. March glanced at Meg, who was looking very pretty in her
gingham morning gown, with the little curls blowing about her
forehead, and very womanly, as she sat sewing at her little
worktable, full of tidy white rolls, so unconscious of the thought
in her mother's mind as she sewed and sang, while her fingers flew
and her thoughts were busied with girlish fancies as innocent and
fresh as the pansies in her belt, that Mrs. March smiled and was
satisfied.
