


Chapter

16
Letters


In the cold gray dawn the sisters lit their lamp and read their
chapter with an earnestness never felt before. For now the shadow
of a real trouble had come, the little books were full of help and
comfort, and as they dressed, they agreed to say goodbye cheerfully
and hopefully, and send their mother on her anxious journey
unsaddened by tears or complaints from them. Everything seemed very
strange when they went down, so dim and still outside, so full of
light and bustle within. Breakfast at that early hour seemed odd,
and even Hannah's familiar face looked unnatural as she flew about
her kitchen with her nightcap on. The big trunk stood ready in the
hall, Mother's cloak and bonnet lay on the sofa, and Mother herself
sat trying to eat, but looking so pale and worn with sleeplessness
and anxiety that the girls found it very hard to keep their
resolution. Meg's eyes kept filling in spite of herself, Jo was
obliged to hide her face in the kitchen roller more than once, and
the little girls wore a grave, troubled expression, as if sorrow
was a new experience to them.

Nobody talked much, but as the time drew very near and they sat
waiting for the carriage, Mrs. March said to the girls, who were
all busied about her, one folding her shawl, another smoothing out
the strings of her bonnet, a third putting on her overshoes, and a
fourth fastening up her travelling bagâ€¦

"Children, I leave you to Hannah's care and Mr. Laurence's
protection. Hannah is faithfulness itself, and our good neighbor
will guard you as if you were his own. I have no fears for you, yet
I am anxious that you should take this trouble rightly. Don't
grieve and fret when I am gone, or think that you can be idle and
comfort yourselves by being idle and trying to forget. Go on with
your work as usual, for work is a blessed solace. Hope and keep
busy, and whatever happens, remember that you never can be
fatherless."

"Yes, Mother."

"Meg, dear, be prudent, watch over your sisters, consult Hannah,
and in any perplexity, go to Mr. Laurence. Be patient, Jo, don't
get despondent or do rash things, write to me often, and be my
brave girl, ready to help and cheer all. Beth, comfort yourself
with your music, and be faithful to the little home duties, and
you, Amy, help all you can, be obedient, and keep happy safe at
home."

"We will, Mother! We will!"

The rattle of an approaching carriage made them all start and
listen. That was the hard minute, but the girls stood it well. No
one cried, no one ran away or uttered a lamentation, though their
hearts were very heavy as they sent loving messages to Father,
remembering, as they spoke that it might be too late to deliver
them. They kissed their mother quietly, clung about her tenderly,
and tried to wave their hands cheerfully when she drove away.
