
"I don't mind," laughed Laurie, as he settled his tie. "Why, you
see I got fidgety, and so did Grandpa. We thought Hannah was
overdoing the authority business, and your mother ought to know.
She'd never forgive us if Bethâ€¦ Well, if anything happened, you
know. So I got grandpa to say it was high time we did something,
and off I pelted to the office yesterday, for the doctor looked
sober, and Hannah most took my head off when I proposed a telegram.
I never can bear to be 'lorded over', so that settled my mind, and
I did it. Your mother will come, I know, and the late train is in
at two A.M. I shall go for her, and you've only got to bottle up
your rapture, and keep Beth quiet till that blessed lady gets
here."

"Laurie, you're an angel! How shall I ever thank you?"

"Fly at me again. I rather liked it," said Laurie, looking
mischievous, a thing he had not done for a fortnight.

"No, thank you. I'll do it by proxy, when your grandpa comes.
Don't tease, but go home and rest, for you'll be up half the night.
Bless you, Teddy, bless you!"

Jo had backed into a corner, and as she finished her speech, she
vanished precipitately into the kitchen, where she sat down upon a
dresser and told the assembled cats that she was "happy, oh, so
happy!" while Laurie departed, feeling that he had made a rather
neat thing of it.

"That's the interferingest chap I ever see, but I forgive him
and do hope Mrs. March is coming right away," said Hannah, with an
air of relief, when Jo told the good news.

Meg had a quiet rapture, and then brooded over the letter, while
Jo set the sickroom in order, and Hannah "knocked up a couple of
pies in case of company unexpected". A breath of fresh air seemed
to blow through the house, and something better than sunshine
brightened the quiet rooms. Everything appeared to feel the hopeful
change. Beth's bird began to chirp again, and a half-blown rose was
discovered on Amy's bush in the window. The fires seemed to burn
with unusual cheeriness, and every time the girls met, their pale
faces broke into smiles as they hugged one another, whispering
encouragingly, "Mother's coming, dear! Mother's coming!" Every one
rejoiced but Beth. She lay in that heavy stupor, alike unconscious
of hope and joy, doubt and danger. It was a piteous sight, the once
rosy face so changed and vacant, the once busy hands so weak and
wasted, the once smiling lips quite dumb, and the once pretty,
well-kept hair scattered rough and tangled on the pillow. All day
she lay so, only rousing now and then to mutter, "Water!" with lips
so parched they could hardly shape the word. All day Jo and Meg
hovered over her, watching, waiting, hoping, and trusting in God
and Mother, and all day the snow fell, the bitter wind raged, and
the hours dragged slowly by. But night came at last, and every time
the clock struck, the sisters, still sitting on either side of the
bed, looked at each other with brightening eyes, for each hour
brought help nearer. The doctor had been in to say that some
change, for better or worse, would probably take place about
midnight, at which time he would return.

Hannah, quite worn out, lay down on the sofa at the bed's foot
and fell fast asleep, Mr. Laurence marched to and fro in the
parlor, feeling that he would rather face a rebel battery than Mrs.
March's countenance as she entered. Laurie lay on the rug,
pretending to rest, but staring into the fire with the thoughtful
look which made his black eyes beautifully soft and clear.

The girls never forgot that night, for no sleep came to them as
they kept their watch, with that dreadful sense of powerlessness
which comes to us in hours like those.

"If God spares Beth, I never will complain again," whispered Meg
earnestly.

