


Chapter

19
Amyâ€™s Will


While these things were happening at home, Amy was having hard
times at Aunt March's. She felt her exile deeply, and for the first
time in her life, realized how much she was beloved and petted at
home. Aunt March never petted any one; she did not approve of it,
but she meant to be kind, for the well-behaved little girl pleased
her very much, and Aunt March had a soft place in her old heart for
her nephew's children, though she didn't think it proper to confess
it. She really did her best to make Amy happy, but, dear me, what
mistakes she made. Some old people keep young at heart in spite of
wrinkles and gray hairs, can sympathize with children's little
cares and joys, make them feel at home, and can hide wise lessons
under pleasant plays, giving and receiving friendship in the
sweetest way. But Aunt March had not this gift, and she worried Amy
very much with her rules and orders, her prim ways, and long, prosy
talks. Finding the child more docile and amiable than her sister,
the old lady felt it her duty to try and counteract, as far as
possible, the bad effects of home freedom and indulgence. So she
took Amy by the hand, and taught her as she herself had been taught
sixty years ago, a process which carried dismay to Amy's soul, and
made her feel like a fly in the web of a very strict spider.

She had to wash the cups every morning, and polish up the
old-fashioned spoons, the fat silver teapot, and the glasses till
they shone. Then she must dust the room, and what a trying job that
was. Not a speck escaped Aunt March's eye, and all the furniture
had claw legs and much carving, which was never dusted to suit.
Then Polly had to be fed, the lap dog combed, and a dozen trips
upstairs and down to get things or deliver orders, for the old lady
was very lame and seldom left her big chair. After these tiresome
labors, she must do her lessons, which was a daily trial of every
virtue she possessed. Then she was allowed one hour for exercise or
play, and didn't she enjoy it?

Laurie came every day, and wheedled Aunt March till Amy was
allowed to go out with him, when they walked and rode and had
capital times. After dinner, she had to read aloud, and sit still
while the old lady slept, which she usually did for an hour, as she
dropped off over the first page. Then patchwork or towels appeared,
and Amy sewed with outward meekness and inward rebellion till dusk,
when she was allowed to amuse herself as she liked till teatime.
The evenings were the worst of all, for Aunt March fell to telling
long stories about her youth, which were so unutterably dull that
Amy was always ready to go to bed, intending to cry over her hard
fate, but usually going to sleep before she had squeezed out more
than a tear or two.

If it had not been for Laurie, and old Esther, the maid, she
felt that she never could have got through that dreadful time. The
parrot alone was enough to drive her distracted, for he soon felt
that she did not admire him, and revenged himself by being as
mischievous as possible. He pulled her hair whenever she came near
him, upset his bread and milk to plague her when she had newly
cleaned his cage, made Mop bark by pecking at him while Madam
dozed, called her names before company, and behaved in all respects
like an reprehensible old bird. Then she could not endure the dog,
a fat, cross beast who snarled and yelped at her when she made his
toilet, and who lay on his back with all his legs in the air and a
most idiotic expression of countenance when he wanted something to
eat, which was about a dozen times a day. The cook was
bad-tempered, the old coachman was deaf, and Esther the only one
who ever took any notice of the young lady.

Esther was a Frenchwoman, who had lived with'Madame', as she
called her mistress, for many years, and who rather tyrannized over
the old lady, who could not get along without her. Her real name
was Estelle, but Aunt March ordered her to change it, and she
obeyed, on condition that she was never asked to change her
religion. She took a fancy to Mademoiselle, and amused her very
much with odd stories of her life in France, when Amy sat with her
while she got up Madame's laces. She also allowed her to roam about
the great house, and examine the curious and pretty things stored
away in the big wardrobes and the ancient chests, for Aunt March
hoarded like a magpie. Amy's chief delight was an Indian cabinet,
full of queer drawers, little pigeonholes, and secret places, in
which were kept all sorts of ornaments, some precious, some merely
curious, all more or less antique. To examine and arrange these
things gave Amy great satisfaction, especially the jewel cases, in
which on velvet cushions reposed the ornaments which had adorned a
belle forty years ago. There was the garnet set which Aunt March
wore when she came out, the pearls her father gave her on her
wedding day, her lover's diamonds, the jet mourning rings and pins,
the queer lockets, with portraits of dead friends and weeping
willows made of hair inside, the baby bracelets her one little
daughter had worn, Uncle March's big watch, with the red seal so
many childish hands had played with, and in a box all by itself lay
Aunt March's wedding ring, too small now for her fat finger, but
put carefully away like the most precious jewel of them all.

"Which would Mademoiselle choose if she had her will?" asked
Esther, who always sat near to watch over and lock up the
valuables.

"I like the diamonds best, but there is no necklace among them,
and I'm fond of necklaces, they are so becoming. I should choose
this if I might," replied Amy, looking with great admiration at a
string of gold and ebony beads from which hung a heavy cross of the
same.
