


Chapter

20
Confidential


I don't think I have any words in which to tell the meeting of
the mother and daughters. Such hours are beautiful to live, but
very hard to describe, so I will leave it to the imagination of my
readers, merely saying that the house was full of genuine
happiness, and that Meg's tender hope was realized, for when Beth
woke from that long, healing sleep, the first objects on which her
eyes fell were the little rose and Mother's face. Too weak to
wonder at anything, she only smiled and nestled close in the loving
arms about her, feeling that the hungry longing was satisfied at
last. Then she slept again, and the girls waited upon their mother,
for she would not unclasp the thin hand which clung to hers even in
sleep.

Hannah had 'dished up' an astonishing breakfast for the
traveler, finding it impossible to vent her excitement in any other
way, and Meg and Jo fed their mother like dutiful young storks,
while they listened to her whispered account of Father's state, Mr.
Brooke's promise to stay and nurse him, the delays which the storm
occasioned on the homeward journey, and the unspeakable comfort
Laurie's hopeful face had given her when she arrived, worn out with
fatigue, anxiety, and cold.

What a strange yet pleasant day that was. So brilliant and gay
without, for all the world seemed abroad to welcome the first snow.
So quiet and reposeful within, for everyone slept, spent with
watching, and a Sabbath stillness reigned through the house, while
nodding Hannah mounted guard at the door. With a blissful sense of
burdens lifted off, Meg and Jo closed their weary eyes, and lay at
rest, like storm-beaten boats safe at anchor in a quiet harbor.
Mrs. March would not leave Beth's side, but rested in the big
chair, waking often to look at, touch, and brood over her child,
like a miser over some recovered treasure.

Laurie meanwhile posted off to comfort Amy, and told his story
so well that Aunt March actually 'sniffed' herself, and never once
said "I told you so". Amy came out so strong on this occasion that
I think the good thoughts in the little chapel really began to bear
fruit. She dried her tears quickly, restrained her impatience to
see her mother, and never even thought of the turquoise ring, when
the old lady heartily agreed in Laurie's opinion, that she behaved
'like a capital little woman'. Even Polly seemed impressed, for he
called her a good girl, blessed her buttons, and begged her to
"come and take a walk, dear", in his most affable tone. She would
very gladly have gone out to enjoy the bright wintry weather, but
discovering that Laurie was dropping with sleep in spite of manful
efforts to conceal the fact, she persuaded him to rest on the sofa,
while she wrote a note to her mother. She was a long time about it,
and when she returned, he was stretched out with both arms under
his head, sound asleep, while Aunt March had pulled down the
curtains and sat doing nothing in an unusual fit of benignity.

After a while, they began to think he was not going to wake up
till night, and I'm not sure that he would, had he not been
effectually roused by Amy's cry of joy at sight of her mother.
There probably were a good many happy little girls in and about the
city that day, but it is my private opinion that Amy was the
happiest of all, when she sat in her mother's lap and told her
trials, receiving consolation and compensation in the shape of
approving smiles and fond caresses. They were alone together in the
chapel, to which her mother did not object when its purpose was
explained to her.

"On the contrary, I like it very much, dear," looking from the
dusty rosary to the well-worn little book, and the lovely picture
with its garland of evergreen. "It is an excellent plan to have
some place where we can go to be quiet, when things vex or grieve
us. There are a good many hard times in this life of ours, but we
can always bear them if we ask help in the right way. I think my
little girl is learning this."

"Yes, Mother, and when I go home I mean to have a corner in the
big closet to put my books and the copy of that picture which I've
tried to make. The woman's face is not good, it's too beautiful for
me to draw, but the baby is done better, and I love it very much. I
like to think He was a little child once, for then I don't seem so
far away, and that helps me."
