A universal shriek arose as the russet boots waved wildly from
the wreck and a golden head emerged, exclaiming, "I told you so! I
told you so!" With wonderful presence of mind, Don Pedro, the cruel
sire, rushed in, dragged out his daughter, with a hasty asideâ€¦

"Don't laugh! Act as if it was all right!" and, ordering
Roderigo up, banished him from the kingdom with wrath and scorn.
Though decidedly shaken by the fall from the tower upon him,
Roderigo defied the old gentleman and refused to stir. This
dauntless example fired Zara. She also defied her sire, and he
ordered them both to the deepest dungeons of the castle. A stout
little retainer came in with chains and led them away, looking very
much frightened and evidently forgetting the speech he ought to
have made.

Act third was the castle hall, and here Hagar appeared, having
come to free the lovers and finish Hugo. She hears him coming and
hides, sees him put the potions into two cups of wine and bid the
timid little servant, "Bear them to the captives in their cells,
and tell them I shall come anon." The servant takes Hugo aside to
tell him something, and Hagar changes the cups for two others which
are harmless. Ferdinando, the 'minion', carries them away, and
Hagar puts back the cup which holds the poison meant for Roderigo.
Hugo, getting thirsty after a long warble, drinks it, loses his
wits, and after a good deal of clutching and stamping, falls flat
and dies, while Hagar informs him what she has done in a song of
exquisite power and melody.

This was a truly thrilling scene, though some persons might have
thought that the sudden tumbling down of a quantity of long red
hair rather marred the effect of the villain's death. He was called
before the curtain, and with great propriety appeared, leading
Hagar, whose singing was considered more wonderful than all the
rest of the performance put together.

Act fourth displayed the despairing Roderigo on the point of
stabbing himself because he has been told that Zara has deserted
him. Just as the dagger is at his heart, a lovely song is sung
under his window, informing him that Zara is true but in danger,
and he can save her if he will. A key is thrown in, which unlocks
the door, and in a spasm of rapture he tears off his chains and
rushes away to find and rescue his lady love.

Act fifth opened with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro.
He wishes her to go into a convent, but she won't hear of it, and
after a touching appeal, is about to faint when Roderigo dashes in
and demands her hand. Don Pedro refuses, because he is not rich.
They shout and gesticulate tremendously but cannot agree, and
Rodrigo is about to bear away the exhausted Zara, when the timid
servant enters with a letter and a bag from Hagar, who has
mysteriously disappeared. The latter informs the party that she
bequeaths untold wealth to the young pair and an awful doom to Don
Pedro, if he doesn't make them happy. The bag is opened, and
several quarts of tin money shower down upon the stage till it is
quite glorified with the glitter. This entirely softens the stern
sire. He consents without a murmur, all join in a joyful chorus,
and the curtain falls upon the lovers kneeling to receive Don
Pedro's blessing in attitudes of the most romantic grace.

Tumultuous applause followed but received an unexpected check,
for the cot bed, on which the dress circle was built, suddenly shut
up and extinguished the enthusiastic audience. Roderigo and Don
Pedro flew to the rescue, and all were taken out unhurt, though
many were speechless with laughter. The excitement had hardly
subsided when Hannah appeared, with "Mrs. March's compliments, and
would the ladies walk down to supper."

This was a surprise even to the actors, and when they saw the
table, they looked at one another in rapturous amazement. It was
like Marmee to get up a little treat for them, but anything so fine
as this was unheard of since the departed days of plenty. There was
ice cream, actually two dishes of it, pink and white, and cake and
fruit and distracting French bonbons and, in the middle of the
table, four great bouquets of hot house flowers.

It quite took their breath away, and they stared first at the
table and then at their mother, who looked as if she enjoyed it
immensely.

"Is it fairies?" asked Amy.

"Santa Claus," said Beth.
