
How Beth laughed when she saw it, how Laurie ran up and down to
bring in the gifts, and what ridiculous speeches Jo made as she
presented them.

"I'm so full of happiness, that if Father was only here, I
couldn't hold one drop more," said Beth, quite sighing with
contentment as Jo carried her off to the study to rest after the
excitement, and to refresh herself with some of the delicious
grapes the 'Jungfrau' had sent her.

"So am I," added Jo, slapping the pocket wherein reposed the
long-desired&#160;
Undine and Sintram
.

"I'm sure I am," echoed Amy, poring over the engraved copy of
the Madonna and Child, which her mother had given her in a pretty
frame.

"Of course I am!" cried Meg, smoothing the silvery folds of her
first silk dress, for Mr. Laurence had insisted on giving it. "How
can I be otherwise?" said Mrs. March gratefully, as her eyes went
from her husband's letter to Beth's smiling face, and her hand
carressed the brooch made of gray and golden, chestnut and dark
brown hair, which the girls had just fastened on her breast.

Now and then, in this workaday world, things do happen in the
delightful storybook fashion, and what a comfort it is. Half an
hour after everyone had said they were so happy they could only
hold one drop more, the drop came. Laurie opened the parlor door
and popped his head in very quietly. He might just as well have
turned a somersault and uttered an Indian war whoop, for his face
was so full of suppressed excitement and his voice so treacherously
joyful that everyone jumped up, though he only said, in a queer,
breathless voice, "Here's another Christmas present for the March
family."

Before the words were well out of his mouth, he was whisked away
somehow, and in his place appeared a tall man, muffled up to the
eyes, leaning on the arm of another tall man, who tried to say
something and couldn't. Of course there was a general stampede, and
for several minutes everybody seemed to lose their wits, for the
strangest things were done, and no one said a word.

Mr. March became invisible in the embrace of four pairs of
loving arms. Jo disgraced herself by nearly fainting away, and had
to be doctored by Laurie in the china closet. Mr. Brooke kissed Meg
entirely by mistake, as he somewhat incoherently explained. And
Amy, the dignified, tumbled over a stool, and never stopping to get
up, hugged and cried over her father's boots in the most touching
manner. Mrs. March was the first to recover herself, and held up
her hand with a warning, "Hush! Remember Beth."

But it was too late. The study door flew open, the little red
wrapper appeared on the threshold, joy put strength into the feeble
limbs, and Beth ran straight into her father's arms. Never mind
what happened just after that, for the full hearts overflowed,
washing away the bitterness of the past and leaving only the
sweetness of the present.

