


Chapter

2
The First Wedding


The June roses over the porch were awake bright and early on
that morning, rejoicing with all their hearts in the cloudless
sunshine, like friendly little neighbors, as they were. Quite
flushed with excitement were their ruddy faces, as they swung in
the wind, whispering to one another what they had seen, for some
peeped in at the dining room windows where the feast was spread,
some climbed up to nod and smile at the sisters as they dressed the
bride, others waved a welcome to those who came and went on various
errands in garden, porch, and hall, and all, from the rosiest
full-blown flower to the palest baby bud, offered their tribute of
beauty and fragrance to the gentle mistress who had loved and
tended them so long.

Meg looked very like a rose herself, for all that was best and
sweetest in heart and soul seemed to bloom into her face that day,
making it fair and tender, with a charm more beautiful than beauty.
Neither silk, lace, nor orange flowers would she have. "I don't
want a fashionable wedding, but only those about me whom I love,
and to them I wish to look and be my familiar self."

So she made her wedding gown herself, sewing into it the tender
hopes and innocent romances of a girlish heart. Her sisters braided
up her pretty hair, and the only ornaments she wore were the lilies
of the valley, which 'her John' liked best of all the flowers that
grew.

"You do look just like our own dear Meg, only so very sweet and
lovely that I should hug you if it wouldn't crumple your dress,"
cried Amy, surveying her with delight when all was done.

"Then I am satisfied. But please hug and kiss me, everyone, and
don't mind my dress. I want a great many crumples of this sort put
into it today," and Meg opened her arms to her sisters, who clung
about her with April faces for a minute, feeling that the new love
had not changed the old.

"Now I'm going to tie John's cravat for him, and then to stay a
few minutes with Father quietly in the study," and Meg ran down to
perform these little ceremonies, and then to follow her mother
wherever she went, conscious that in spite of the smiles on the
motherly face, there was a secret sorrow hid in the motherly heart
at the flight of the first bird from the nest.

As the younger girls stand together, giving the last touches to
their simple toilet, it may be a good time to tell of a few changes
which three years have wrought in their appearance, for all are
looking their best just now.
