"Laurie, my lad, if you ever want to indulge in this sort of
thing, get one of those little girls to help you, and I shall be
perfectly satisfied," said Mr. Laurence, settling himself in his
easy chair to rest after the excitement of the morning.

"I'll do my best to gratify you, Sir," was Laurie's unusually
dutiful reply, as he carefully unpinned the posy Jo had put in his
buttonhole.

The little house was not far away, and the only bridal journey
Meg had was the quiet walk with John from the old home to the new.
When she came down, looking like a pretty Quakeress in her
dove-colored suit and straw bonnet tied with white, they all
gathered about her to say 'good-by', as tenderly as if she had been
going to make the grand tour.

"Don't feel that I am separated from you, Marmee dear, or that I
love you any the less for loving John so much," she said, clinging
to her mother, with full eyes for a moment. "I shall come every
day, Father, and expect to keep my old place in all your hearts,
though I am married. Beth is going to be with me a great deal, and
the other girls will drop in now and then to laugh at my
housekeeping struggles. Thank you all for my happy wedding day.
Goodby, goodby!"

They stood watching her, with faces full of love and hope and
tender pride as she walked away, leaning on her husband's arm, with
her hands full of flowers and the June sunshine brightening her
happy faceâ€”and so Meg's married life began.




