
Jo happened to suit Aunt March, who was lame and needed an
active person to wait upon her. The childless old lady had offered
to adopt one of the girls when the troubles came, and was much
offended because her offer was declined. Other friends told the
Marches that they had lost all chance of being remembered in the
rich old lady's will, but the unworldly Marches only saidâ€¦

"We can't give up our girls for a dozen fortunes. Rich or poor,
we will keep together and be happy in one another."

The old lady wouldn't speak to them for a time, but happening to
meet Jo at a friend's, something in her comical face and blunt
manners struck the old lady's fancy, and she proposed to take her
for a companion. This did not suit Jo at all, but she accepted the
place since nothing better appeared and, to every one's surprise,
got on remarkably well with her irascible relative. There was an
occasional tempest, and once Jo marched home, declaring she
couldn't bear it longer, but Aunt March always cleared up quickly,
and sent for her to come back again with such urgency that she
could not refuse, for in her heart she rather liked the peppery old
lady.

I suspect that the real attraction was a large library of fine
books, which was left to dust and spiders since Uncle March died.
Jo remembered the kind old gentleman, who used to let her build
railroads and bridges with his big dictionaries, tell her stories
about queer pictures in his Latin books, and buy her cards of
gingerbread whenever he met her in the street. The dim, dusty room,
with the busts staring down from the tall bookcases, the cozy
chairs, the globes, and best of all, the wilderness of books in
which she could wander where she liked, made the library a region
of bliss to her.

The moment Aunt March took her nap, or was busy with company, Jo
hurried to this quiet place, and curling herself up in the easy
chair, devoured poetry, romance, history, travels, and pictures
like a regular bookworm. But, like all happiness, it did not last
long, for as sure as she had just reached the heart of the story,
the sweetest verse of a song, or the most perilous adventure of her
traveler, a shrill voice called, "Josy-phine! Josy-phine!" and she
had to leave her paradise to wind yarn, wash the poodle, or read
Belsham's Essays by the hour together.

Jo's ambition was to do something very splendid. What it was,
she had no idea as yet, but left it for time to tell her, and
meanwhile, found her greatest affliction in the fact that she
couldn't read, run, and ride as much as she liked. A quick temper,
sharp tongue, and restless spirit were always getting her into
scrapes, and her life was a series of ups and downs, which were
both comic and pathetic. But the training she received at Aunt
March's was just what she needed, and the thought that she was
doing something to support herself made her happy in spite of the
perpetual "Josy-phine!"

Beth was too bashful to go to school. It had been tried, but she
suffered so much that it was given up, and she did her lessons at
home with her father. Even when he went away, and her mother was
called to devote her skill and energy to Soldiers' Aid Societies,
Beth went faithfully on by herself and did the best she could. She
was a housewifely little creature, and helped Hannah keep home neat
and comfortable for the workers, never thinking of any reward but
to be loved. Long, quiet days she spent, not lonely nor idle, for
her little world was peopled with imaginary friends, and she was by
nature a busy bee. There were six dolls to be taken up and dressed
every morning, for Beth was a child still and loved her pets as
well as ever. Not one whole or handsome one among them, all were
outcasts till Beth took them in, for when her sisters outgrew these
idols, they passed to her because Amy would have nothing old or
ugly. Beth cherished them all the more tenderly for that very
reason, and set up a hospital for infirm dolls. No pins were ever
stuck into their cotton vitals, no harsh words or blows were ever
given them, no neglect ever saddened the heart of the most
repulsive, but all were fed and clothed, nursed and caressed with
an affection which never failed. One forlorn fragment of dollanity
had belonged to Jo and, having led a tempestuous life, was left a
wreck in the rag bag, from which dreary poorhouse it was rescued by
Beth and taken to her refuge. Having no top to its head, she tied
on a neat little cap, and as both arms and legs were gone, she hid
these deficiencies by folding it in a blanket and devoting her best
bed to this chronic invalid. If anyone had known the care lavished
on that dolly, I think it would have touched their hearts, even
while they laughed. She brought it bits of bouquets, she read to
it, took it out to breathe fresh air, hidden under her coat, she
sang it lullabies and never went to bed without kissing its dirty
face and whispering tenderly, "I hope you'll have a good night, my
poor dear."

Beth had her troubles as well as the others, and not being an
angel but a very human little girl, she often 'wept a little weep'
as Jo said, because she couldn't take music lessons and have a fine
piano. She loved music so dearly, tried so hard to learn, and
practiced away so patiently at the jingling old instrument, that it
did seem as if someone (not to hint Aunt March) ought to help her.
Nobody did, however, and nobody saw Beth wipe the tears off the
yellow keys, that wouldn't keep in tune, when she was all alone.
She sang like a little lark about her work, never was too tired for
Marmee and the girls, and day after day said hopefully to herself,
"I know I'll get my music some time, if I'm good."

There are many Beths in the world, shy and quiet, sitting in
corners till needed, and living for others so cheerfully that no
one sees the sacrifices till the little cricket on the hearth stops
chirping, and the sweet, sunshiny presence vanishes, leaving
silence and shadow behind.

If anybody had asked Amy what the greatest trial of her life
was, she would have answered at once, "My nose." When she was a
baby, Jo had accidently dropped her into the coal hod, and Amy
insisted that the fall had ruined her nose forever. It was not big
nor red, like poor 'Petrea's', it was only rather flat, and all the
pinching in the world could not give it an aristocratic point. No
one minded it but herself, and it was doing its best to grow, but
Amy felt deeply the want of a Grecian nose, and drew whole sheets
of handsome ones to console herself.

