


Chapter

22
Daisy and Demi


I cannot feel that I have done my duty as humble historian of
the March family, without devoting at least one chapter to the two
most precious and important members of it. Daisy and Demi had now
arrived at years of discretion, for in this fast age babies of
three or four assert their rights, and get them, too, which is more
than many of their elders do. If there ever were a pair of twins in
danger of being utterly spoiled by adoration, it was these
prattling Brookes. Of course they were the most remarkable children
ever born, as will be shown when I mention that they walked at
eight months, talked fluently at twelve months, and at two years
they took their places at table, and behaved with a propriety which
charmed all beholders. At three, Daisy demanded a 'needler', and
actually made a bag with four stitches in it. She likewise set up
housekeeping in the sideboard, and managed a microscopic cooking
stove with a skill that brought tears of pride to Hannah's eyes,
while Demi learned his letters with his grandfather, who invented a
new mode of teaching the alphabet by forming letters with his arms
and legs, thus uniting gymnastics for head and heels. The boy early
developed a mechanical genius which delighted his father and
distracted his mother, for he tried to imitate every machine he
saw, and kept the nursery in a chaotic condition, with his
'sewinsheen', a mysterious structure of string, chairs,
clothespins, and spools, for wheels to go 'wound and wound'. Also a
basket hung over the back of a chair, in which he vainly tried to
hoist his too confiding sister, who, with feminine devotion,
allowed her little head to be bumped till rescued, when the young
inventor indignantly remarked, "Why, Marmar, dat's my lellywaiter,
and me's trying to pull her up."

Though utterly unlike in character, the twins got on remarkably
well together, and seldom quarreled more than thrice a day. Of
course, Demi tyrannized over Daisy, and gallantly defended her from
every other aggressor, while Daisy made a galley slave of herself,
and adored her brother as the one perfect being in the world. A
rosy, chubby, sunshiny little soul was Daisy, who found her way to
everybody's heart, and nestled there. One of the captivating
children, who seem made to be kissed and cuddled, adorned and
adored like little goddesses, and produced for general approval on
all festive occasions. Her small virtues were so sweet that she
would have been quite angelic if a few small naughtinesses had not
kept her delightfully human. It was all fair weather in her world,
and every morning she scrambled up to the window in her little
nightgown to look out, and say, no matter whether it rained or
shone, "Oh, pitty day, oh, pitty day!" Everyone was a friend, and
she offered kisses to a stranger so confidingly that the most
inveterate bachelor relented, and baby-lovers became faithful
worshipers.

"Me loves evvybody," she once said, opening her arms, with her
spoon in one hand, and her mug in the other, as if eager to embrace
and nourish the whole world.

As she grew, her mother began to feel that the Dovecote would be
blessed by the presence of an inmate as serene and loving as that
which had helped to make the old house home, and to pray that she
might be spared a loss like that which had lately taught them how
long they had entertained an angel unawares. Her grandfather often
called her 'Beth', and her grandmother watched over her with
untiring devotion, as if trying to atone for some past mistake,
which no eye but her own could see.

Demi, like a true Yankee, was of an inquiring turn, wanting to
know everything, and often getting much disturbed because he could
not get satisfactory answers to his perpetual "What for?"

He also possessed a philosophic bent, to the great delight of
his grandfather, who used to hold Socratic conversations with him,
in which the precocious pupil occasionally posed his teacher, to
the undisguised satisfaction of the womenfolk.

"What makes my legs go, Dranpa?" asked the young philosopher,
surveying those active portions of his frame with a meditative air,
while resting after a go-to-bed frolic one night.
