
Feeling almost happy again, she laid by a few ferns and roses
for herself, and quickly made up the rest in dainty bouquets for
the breasts, hair, or skirts of her friends, offering them so
prettily that Clara, the elder sister, told her she was 'the
sweetest little thing she ever saw', and they looked quite charmed
with her small attention. Somehow the kind act finished her
despondency, and when all the rest went to show themselves to Mrs.
Moffat, she saw a happy, bright-eyed face in the mirror, as she
laid her ferns against her rippling hair and fastened the roses in
the dress that didn't strike her as so very shabby now.

She enjoyed herself very much that evening, for she danced to
her heart's content. Everyone was very kind, and she had three
compliments. Annie made her sing, and some one said she had a
remarkably fine voice. Major Lincoln asked who 'the fresh little
girl with the beautiful eyes' was, and Mr. Moffat insisted on
dancing with her because she 'didn't dawdle, but had some spring in
her', as he gracefully expressed it. So altogether she had a very
nice time, till she overheard a bit of conversation, which
disturbed her extremely. She was sitting just inside the
conservatory, waiting for her partner to bring her an ice, when she
heard a voice ask on the other side of the flowery wall…

"How old is he?"

"Sixteen or seventeen, I should say," replied another voice.

"It would be a grand thing for one of those girls, wouldn't it?
Sallie says they are very intimate now, and the old man quite dotes
on them."

"Mrs. M. has made her plans, I dare say, and will play her cards
well, early as it is. The girl evidently doesn't think of it yet,"
said Mrs. Moffat.

"She told that fib about her momma, as if she did know, and
colored up when the flowers came quite prettily. Poor thing! She'd
be so nice if she was only got up in style. Do you think she'd be
offended if we offered to lend her a dress for Thursday?" asked
another voice.

"She's proud, but I don't believe she'd mind, for that dowdy
tarlaton is all she has got. She may tear it tonight, and that will
be a good excuse for offering a decent one."

Here Meg's partner appeared, to find her looking much flushed
and rather agitated. She was proud, and her pride was useful just
then, for it helped her hide her mortification, anger, and disgust
at what she had just heard. For, innocent and unsuspicious as she
was, she could not help understanding the gossip of her friends.
She tried to forget it, but could not, and kept repeating to
herself, "Mrs. M. has made her plans," "that fib about her mamma,"
and "dowdy tarlaton," till she was ready to cry and rush home to
tell her troubles and ask for advice. As that was impossible, she
did her best to seem gay, and being rather excited, she succeeded
so well that no one dreamed what an effort she was making. She was
very glad when it was all over and she was quiet in her bed, where
she could think and wonder and fume till her head ached and her hot
cheeks were cooled by a few natural tears. Those foolish, yet well
meant words, had opened a new world to Meg, and much disturbed the
peace of the old one in which till now she had lived as happily as
a child. Her innocent friendship with Laurie was spoiled by the
silly speeches she had overheard. Her faith in her mother was a
little shaken by the worldly plans attributed to her by Mrs.
Moffat, who judged others by herself, and the sensible resolution
to be contented with the simple wardrobe which suited a poor man's
daughter was weakened by the unnecessary pity of girls who thought
a shabby dress one of the greatest calamities under heaven.

Poor Meg had a restless night, and got up heavy-eyed, unhappy,
half resentful toward her friends, and half ashamed of herself for
not speaking out frankly and setting everything right. Everybody
dawdled that morning, and it was noon before the girls found energy
enough even to take up their worsted work. Something in the manner
of her friends struck Meg at once. They treated her with more
respect, she thought, took quite a tender interest in what she
said, and looked at her with eyes that plainly betrayed curiosity.
All this surprised and flattered her, though she did not understand
it till Miss Belle looked up from her writing, and said, with a
sentimental air…

