


Chapter

15

&#160;


That evening, at eight-thirty, exquisitely dressed and wearing a
large button-hole of Parma violets, Dorian Gray was ushered into
Lady Narborough's drawing-room by bowing servants. His forehead was
throbbing with maddened nerves, and he felt wildly excited, but his
manner as he bent over his hostess's hand was as easy and graceful
as ever. Perhaps one never seems so much at one's ease as when one
has to play a part. Certainly no one looking at Dorian Gray that
night could have believed that he had passed through a tragedy as
horrible as any tragedy of our age. Those finely shaped fingers
could never have clutched a knife for sin, nor those smiling lips
have cried out on God and goodness. He himself could not help
wondering at the calm of his demeanour, and for a moment felt
keenly the terrible pleasure of a double life.

It was a small party, got up rather in a hurry by Lady
Narborough, who was a very clever woman with what Lord Henry used
to describe as the remains of really remarkable ugliness. She had
proved an excellent wife to one of our most tedious ambassadors,
and having buried her husband properly in a marble mausoleum, which
she had herself designed, and married off her daughters to some
rich, rather elderly men, she devoted herself now to the pleasures
of French fiction, French cookery, and French esprit when she could
get it.

Dorian was one of her especial favourites, and she always told
him that she was extremely glad she had not met him in early life.
"I know, my dear, I should have fallen madly in love with you," she
used to say, "and thrown my bonnet right over the mills for your
sake. It is most fortunate that you were not thought of at the
time. As it was, our bonnets were so unbecoming, and the mills were
so occupied in trying to raise the wind, that I never had even a
flirtation with anybody. However, that was all Narborough's fault.
He was dreadfully short-sighted, and there is no pleasure in taking
in a husband who never sees anything."

Her guests this evening were rather tedious. The fact was, as
she explained to Dorian, behind a very shabby fan, one of her
married daughters had come up quite suddenly to stay with her, and,
to make matters worse, had actually brought her husband with her.
"I think it is most unkind of her, my dear," she whispered. "Of
course I go and stay with them every summer after I come from
Homburg, but then an old woman like me must have fresh air
sometimes, and besides, I really wake them up. You don't know what
an existence they lead down there. It is pure unadulterated country
life. They get up early, because they have so much to do, and go to
bed early, because they have so little to think about. There has
not been a scandal in the neighbourhood since the time of Queen
Elizabeth, and consequently they all fall asleep after dinner. You
shan't sit next either of them. You shall sit by me and amuse
me."

Dorian murmured a graceful compliment and looked round the room.
Yes: it was certainly a tedious party. Two of the people he had
never seen before, and the others consisted of Ernest Harrowden,
one of those middle-aged mediocrities so common in London clubs who
have no enemies, but are thoroughly disliked by their friends; Lady
Ruxton, an overdressed woman of forty-seven, with a hooked nose,
who was always trying to get herself compromised, but was so
peculiarly plain that to her great disappointment no one would ever
believe anything against her; Mrs. Erlynne, a pushing nobody, with
a delightful lisp and Venetian-red hair; Lady Alice Chapman, his
hostess's daughter, a dowdy dull girl, with one of those
characteristic British faces that, once seen, are never remembered;
and her husband, a red-cheeked, white-whiskered creature who, like
so many of his class, was under the impression that inordinate
joviality can atone for an entire lack of ideas.

He was rather sorry he had come, till Lady Narborough, looking
at the great ormolu gilt clock that sprawled in gaudy curves on the
mauve-draped mantelshelf, exclaimed: "How horrid of Henry Wotton to
be so late! I sent round to him this morning on chance and he
promised faithfully not to disappoint me."

