


Chapter

20

&#160;


It was a lovely night, so warm that he threw his coat over his
arm and did not even put his silk scarf round his throat. As he
strolled home, smoking his cigarette, two young men in evening
dress passed him. He heard one of them whisper to the other, "That
is Dorian Gray." He remembered how pleased he used to be when he
was pointed out, or stared at, or talked about. He was tired of
hearing his own name now. Half the charm of the little village
where he had been so often lately was that no one knew who he was.
He had often told the girl whom he had lured to love him that he
was poor, and she had believed him. He had told her once that he
was wicked, and she had laughed at him and answered that wicked
people were always very old and very ugly. What a laugh she
had!—just like a thrush singing. And how pretty she had been in her
cotton dresses and her large hats! She knew nothing, but she had
everything that he had lost.

When he reached home, he found his servant waiting up for him.
He sent him to bed, and threw himself down on the sofa in the
library, and began to think over some of the things that Lord Henry
had said to him.

Was it really true that one could never change? He felt a wild
longing for the unstained purity of his boyhood— his rose-white
boyhood, as Lord Henry had once called it. He knew that he had
tarnished himself, filled his mind with corruption and given horror
to his fancy; that he had been an evil influence to others, and had
experienced a terrible joy in being so; and that of the lives that
had crossed his own, it had been the fairest and the most full of
promise that he had brought to shame. But was it all irretrievable?
Was there no hope for him?

Ah! in what a monstrous moment of pride and passion he had
prayed that the portrait should bear the burden of his days, and he
keep the unsullied splendour of eternal youth! All his failure had
been due to that. Better for him that each sin of his life had
brought its sure swift penalty along with it. There was
purification in punishment. Not "Forgive us our sins" but "Smite us
for our iniquities" should be the prayer of man to a most just
God.

The curiously carved mirror that Lord Henry had given to him, so
many years ago now, was standing on the table, and the white-limbed
Cupids laughed round it as of old. He took it up, as he had done on
that night of horror when be had first noted the change in the
fatal picture, and with wild, tear-dimmed eyes looked into its
polished shield. Once, some one who had terribly loved him had
written to him a mad letter, ending with these idolatrous words:
"The world is changed because you are made of ivory and gold. The
curves of your lips rewrite history." The phrases came back to his
memory, and he repeated them over and over to himself. Then he
loathed his own beauty, and flinging the mirror on the floor,
crushed it into silver splinters beneath his heel. It was his
beauty that had ruined him, his beauty and the youth that he had
prayed for. But for those two things, his life might have been free
from stain. His beauty had been to him but a mask, his youth but a
mockery. What was youth at best? A green, an unripe time, a time of
shallow moods, and sickly thoughts. Why had he worn its livery?
Youth had spoiled him.

It was better not to think of the past. Nothing could alter
that. It was of himself, and of his own future, that he had to
think. James Vane was hidden in a nameless grave in Selby
churchyard. Alan Campbell had shot himself one night in his
laboratory, but had not revealed the secret that he had been forced
to know. The excitement, such as it was, over Basil Hallward's
disappearance would soon pass away. It was already waning. He was
perfectly safe there. Nor, indeed, was it the death of Basil
Hallward that weighed most upon his mind. It was the living death
of his own soul that troubled him. Basil had painted the portrait
that had marred his life. He could not forgive him that. It was the
portrait that had done everything. Basil had said things to him
that were unbearable, and that he had yet borne with patience. The
murder had been simply the madness of a moment. As for Alan
Campbell, his suicide had been his own act. He had chosen to do it.
It was nothing to him.

