
When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and
Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat. "She is quite
beautiful, Dorian," he said, "but she can't act. Let us go."

"I am going to see the play through," answered the lad, in a
hard bitter voice. "I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste
an evening, Harry. I apologize to you both."

"My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill," interrupted
Hallward. "We will come some other night."

"I wish she were ill," he rejoined. "But she seems to me to be
simply callous and cold. She has entirely altered. Last night she
was a great artist. This evening she is merely a commonplace
mediocre actress."

"Don't talk like that about any one you love, Dorian. Love is a
more wonderful thing than art."

"They are both simply forms of imitation," remarked Lord Henry.
"But do let us go. Dorian, you must not stay here any longer. It is
not good for one's morals to see bad acting. Besides, I don't
suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if
she plays Juliet like a wooden doll? She is very lovely, and if she
knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a
delightful experience. There are only two kinds of people who are
really fascinatingâ€” people who know absolutely everything, and
people who know absolutely nothing. Good heavens, my dear boy,
don't look so tragic! The secret of remaining young is never to
have an emotion that is unbecoming. Come to the club with Basil and
myself. We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl
Vane. She is beautiful. What more can you want?"

"Go away, Harry," cried the lad. "I want to be alone. Basil, you
must go. Ah! can't you see that my heart is breaking?" The hot
tears came to his eyes. His lips trembled, and rushing to the back
of the box, he leaned up against the wall, hiding his face in his
hands.

"Let us go, Basil," said Lord Henry with a strange tenderness in
his voice, and the two young men passed out together.

A few moments afterwards the footlights flared up and the
curtain rose on the third act. Dorian Gray went back to his seat.
He looked pale, and proud, and indifferent. The play dragged on,
and seemed interminable. Half of the audience went out, tramping in
heavy boots and laughing. The whole thing was a fiasco. The last
act was played to almost empty benches. The curtain went down on a
titter and some groans.

As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes
into the greenroom. The girl was standing there alone, with a look
of triumph on her face. Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire.
There was a radiance about her. Her parted lips were smiling over
some secret of their own.

