When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of
infinite joy came over her. "How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!"
she cried.

"Horribly!" he answered, gazing at her in amazement. "Horribly!
It was dreadful. Are you ill? You have no idea what it was. You
have no idea what I suffered."

The girl smiled. "Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name
with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than
honey to the red petals of her mouth. "Dorian, you should have
understood. But you understand now, don't you?"

"Understand what?" he asked, angrily.

"Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad. Why I
shall never act well again."

He shrugged his shoulders. "You are ill, I suppose. When you are
ill you shouldn't act. You make yourself ridiculous. My friends
were bored. I was bored."

She seemed not to listen to him. She was transfigured with joy.
An ecstasy of happiness dominated her.

"Dorian, Dorian," she cried, "before I knew you, acting was the
one reality of my life. It was only in the theatre that I lived. I
thought that it was all true. I was Rosalind one night and Portia
the other. The joy of Beatrice was my joy, and the sorrows of
Cordelia were mine also. I believed in everything. The common
people who acted with me seemed to me to be godlike. The painted
scenes were my world. I knew nothing but shadows, and I thought
them real. You came—oh, my beautiful love!— and you freed my soul
from prison. You taught me what reality really is. To-night, for
the first time in my life, I saw through the hollowness, the sham,
the silliness of the empty pageant in which I had always played.
To-night, for the first time, I became conscious that the Romeo was
hideous, and old, and painted, that the moonlight in the orchard
was false, that the scenery was vulgar, and that the words I had to
speak were unreal, were not my words, were not what I wanted to
say. You had brought me something higher, something of which all
art is but a reflection. You had made me understand what love
really is. My love! My love! Prince Charming! Prince of life! I
have grown sick of shadows. You are more to me than all art can
ever be. What have I to do with the puppets of a play? When I came
on to-night, I could not understand how it was that everything had
gone from me. I thought that I was going to be wonderful. I found
that I could do nothing. Suddenly it dawned on my soul what it all
meant. The knowledge was exquisite to me. I heard them hissing, and
I smiled. What could they know of love such as ours? Take me away,
Dorian—take me away with you, where we can be quite alone. I hate
the stage. I might mimic a passion that I do not feel, but I cannot
mimic one that burns me like fire. Oh, Dorian, Dorian, you
understand now what it signifies? Even if I could do it, it would
be profanation for me to play at being in love. You have made me
see that."

He flung himself down on the sofa and turned away his face. "You
have killed my love," he muttered.

She looked at him in wonder and laughed. He made no answer. She
came across to him, and with her little fingers stroked his hair.
She knelt down and pressed his hands to her lips. He drew them
away, and a shudder ran through him.

Then he leaped up and went to the door. "Yes," he cried, "you
have killed my love. You used to stir my imagination. Now you don't
even stir my curiosity. You simply produce no effect. I loved you
because you were marvellous, because you had genius and intellect,
because you realized the dreams of great poets and gave shape and
substance to the shadows of art. You have thrown it all away. You
are shallow and stupid. My God! how mad I was to love you! What a
fool I have been! You are nothing to me now. I will never see you
again. I will never think of you. I will never mention your name.
You don't know what you were to me, once. Why, once&#160;… Oh, I
can't bear to think of it! I wish I had never laid eyes upon you!
You have spoiled the romance of my life. How little you can know of
love, if you say it mars your art! Without your art, you are
nothing. I would have made you famous, splendid, magnificent. The
world would have worshipped you, and you would have borne my name.
What are you now? A third-rate actress with a pretty face."
