He turned round and, walking to the window, drew up the blind.
The bright dawn flooded the room and swept the fantastic shadows
into dusky corners, where they lay shuddering. But the strange
expression that he had noticed in the face of the portrait seemed
to linger there, to be more intensified even. The quivering ardent
sunlight showed him the lines of cruelty round the mouth as clearly
as if he had been looking into a mirror after he had done some
dreadful thing.

He winced and, taking up from the table an oval glass framed in
ivory Cupids, one of Lord Henry's many presents to him, glanced
hurriedly into its polished depths. No line like that warped his
red lips. What did it mean?

He rubbed his eyes, and came close to the picture, and examined
it again. There were no signs of any change when he looked into the
actual painting, and yet there was no doubt that the whole
expression had altered. It was not a mere fancy of his own. The
thing was horribly apparent.

He threw himself into a chair and began to think. Suddenly there
flashed across his mind what he had said in Basil Hallward's studio
the day the picture had been finished. Yes, he remembered it
perfectly. He had uttered a mad wish that he himself might remain
young, and the portrait grow old; that his own beauty might be
untarnished, and the face on the canvas bear the burden of his
passions and his sins; that the painted image might be seared with
the lines of suffering and thought, and that he might keep all the
delicate bloom and loveliness of his then just conscious boyhood.
Surely his wish had not been fulfilled? Such things were
impossible. It seemed monstrous even to think of them. And, yet,
there was the picture before him, with the touch of cruelty in the
mouth.

Cruelty! Had he been cruel? It was the girl's fault, not his. He
had dreamed of her as a great artist, had given his love to her
because he had thought her great. Then she had disappointed him.
She had been shallow and unworthy. And, yet, a feeling of infinite
regret came over him, as he thought of her lying at his feet
sobbing like a little child. He remembered with what callousness he
had watched her. Why had he been made like that? Why had such a
soul been given to him? But he had suffered also. During the three
terrible hours that the play had lasted, he had lived centuries of
pain, aeon upon aeon of torture. His life was well worth hers. She
had marred him for a moment, if he had wounded her for an age.
Besides, women were better suited to bear sorrow than men. They
lived on their emotions. They only thought of their emotions. When
they took lovers, it was merely to have some one with whom they
could have scenes. Lord Henry had told him that, and Lord Henry
knew what women were. Why should he trouble about Sibyl Vane? She
was nothing to him now.

But the picture? What was he to say of that? It held the secret
of his life, and told his story. It had taught him to love his own
beauty. Would it teach him to loathe his own soul? Would he ever
look at it again?

No; it was merely an illusion wrought on the troubled senses.
The horrible night that he had passed had left phantoms behind it.
Suddenly there had fallen upon his brain that tiny scarlet speck
that makes men mad. The picture had not changed. It was folly to
think so.

Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its
cruel smile. Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight. Its
blue eyes met his own. A sense of infinite pity, not for himself,
but for the painted image of himself, came over him. It had altered
already, and would alter more. Its gold would wither into grey. Its
red and white roses would die. For every sin that he committed, a
stain would fleck and wreck its fairness. But he would not sin. The
picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem
of conscience. He would resist temptation. He would not see Lord
Henry any moreâ€”would not, at any rate, listen to those subtle
poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward's garden had first
stirred within him the passion for impossible things. He would go
back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her
again. Yes, it was his duty to do so. She must have suffered more
than he had. Poor child! He had been selfish and cruel to her. The
fascination that she had exercised over him would return. They
would be happy together. His life with her would be beautiful and
pure.

He got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front
of the portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it. "How horrible!" he
murmured to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened
it. When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath. The
fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions. He
thought only of Sibyl. A faint echo of his love came back to him.
He repeated her name over and over again. The birds that were
singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers
about her.




