Then she inquired, Whether there was no mystery in Numbers? No
other mystery, answered the Spirits, but reckoning or counting; for
Numbers are onely marks of remembrance. But what do you think of
the Number of Four, said she, which Cabbalists make such ado
withal, and of the Number of Ten, when they say that Ten is all,
and that all Numbers are virtually comprehended in Four? We think,
answered they, that Cabbalists have nothing else to do but to
trouble their heads with such useless Fancies; for naturally there
is no such thing as prime or all in Numbers; nor is there any other
mystery in Numbers, but what Man's fancy makes; but what Men call
Prime, or All, we do not know, because they do not agree in the
number of their opinion. Then the Empress asked, Whether the number
of six was a symbole of Matrimony, as being made up of Male and
Femal, for two into three is six. If any number can be a symbole of
Matrimony, answered the Spirits, it is not Six, but Two; if two may
be allowed to be a Number: for the act of Matrimony is made up of
two joined in one. she asked again, What they said to the number of
Seven? whether it was not an Embleme of God, because Cabbalists
say, That it is neither begotten, nor begets any other Number?
There can be no Embleme of God, answered the Spirits; for if we do
not know what God is, how can we make an Embleme of him? Nor is
there any Number in God, for God is the perfection Himself;
but&#160;Numbers are imperfect; and as for the begetting of
numbers, it is done by Multiplication and Addition; but
Substraction is as a kind of death to Numbers. If there be no
mystery in Numbers, replied the Empress then it is in vain to refer
to the Creation of the World to certain Numbers, as Cabbalists do.
The onely mystery of Numbers, answered they, concerning the
Creation of the World, is, that as Numbers do multiply, so does the
World. The Empress asked, how far Numbers did multiply? The Spirits
answered, to Infinite. Why, said she, Infinite cannot be reckoned,
nor numbred. No more, answered they, can the parts of the Universe;
for God's Creation, being an Infinite action, as proceeding from an
Infinite Power, could not rest upon a finite Number of Creatures,
were it never so great. But leaving the mystery of Numbers,
proceeded the Empress, Let me now desire you to inform me, Whether
the Suns and Planets were generated by the Heavens, or Æthereal
Matter? The Spirits answered, That the Stars and Planets were of
the same matter which the Heavens, the Æther, and all other Natural
Creatures did consist of; but whether they were generated by the
Heavens or Æther, they could not tell: if they be, said they, they
are not like their Parents; for the Sun, Stars, and Planets, are
more splendorous then the Æther, as also more solid and constant in
their motions: But put the case, the Stars and Planets were
generated by the Heavens, and&#160;the Æthereal Matter; the
question then would be, Out of what these are generated or
produced? If these be created out of nothing, and not generated out
of something, then it is probable the Sun, Stars and Planets are so
too; nay, it is more probable of the Stars, and Planets, then of
the Heavens, or the fluid Æther, by reason the Stars and Planets
seem to be further off from Mortality, then the particular parts of
the Æther; for no doubt but the parts of the Æthereal Matter, alter
into several forms, which we do not perceive of the Stars and
Planets. The Empress asked further, Whether they could give her
information of the three principles of Man, according to the
doctrine of the Platonists; as first of the Intellect, Spirit, or
Divine Light. 2. Of the Soul of Man her self: and 3. Of the Image
of the Soul, that is, her vital operation on the body? The Spirits
answered, That they did not understand these three distinctions,
but that they seem'd to corporeal sense and reason, as if they were
three several bodies, or three several corporeal actions; however,
said they, they are intricate conceptions of irregular Fancies. If
you do not understand them, replied the Empress, how shall human
Creatures do then? Many, both of your modern and ancient
Philosophers, answered the Spirits, endeavour to go beyond Sense
and Reason, which makes them commit absurdities; for no corporeal
Creature can go beyond Sense and Reason; no not weSpirits, as long
as we are in our corporeal Vehicles. Then the Empress asked them,
Whether there were any Atheists in the World? The Spirits answered,
That there were no more Atheists then what Cabbalists make. she
asked them further, Whether Spirits were of a globous or round
Figure? They answered, That Figure belonged to body, but they being
immaterial, had no Figure. she asked again, Whether Spirits were
not like Water or Fire? They answered, that Water and Fire was
material, were it the purest and most refined that ever could be;
nay, were it above the Heavens: But we are no more like Water or
Fire, said they, then we are like Earth; but our Vehicles are of
several forms, figures and degrees of substances. Then she desired
to know, Whether their Vehicles were made of Air? Yes, answered the
Spirits, some of our Vehicles are of thin Air. Then I suppose,
replied the Empress, That those airy Vehicles, are your corporeal
Summer-suits. she asked further, Whether the Spirits had not
ascending and descending-motions, as well as other Creatures? They
answered, That properly there was no ascension or descension in
Infinite Nature, but onely in relation to particular parts; and as
for us Spirits, said they, We can neither ascend nor descend
without corporeal Vehicles; nor can our Vehicles ascend or descend,
but according to their several shapes and figures, for there can be
no motion without body. The Empress asked&#160;them further,
Whether there was not a World of Spirits, as well as there is of
Material Creatures? No, answered they; for the word World implies a
quantity or multitude of corporeal Creatures, but we being
Immaterial, can make no World of Spirits. Then she desired to be
informed when Spirits were made? We do not know, answered they, how
and when we were made, nor are we much inquisitive after it; nay,
if we did, it would be no benefit, neither for us, nor for you
Mortals to know it. The Empress replied, That Cabbalists and Divine
Philosophers said, Mens rational Souls were Immaterial, and stood
as much in need of corporeal Vehicles, as Spirits did. If this be
so, answered the Spirits, then you are Hermaphrodites of Nature;
but your Cabbalists are mistaken, for they take the purest and
subtilest parts of Matter, for Immaterial Spirits. Then the Empress
asked, When the Souls of Mortals went out of their Bodies, whether
they went to Heaven or Hell; or whether, they remained in airy
Vehicles? God's Justice and Mercy, answered they, is perfect, and
not imperfect; but if you Mortals will have Vehicles for your
Souls, and a place that is between Heaven and Hell, it must be
Purgatory, which is a place of Purification, for which action Fire
is more proper then Air; and so the Vehicles of those Souls that
are in Purgatory, cannot be airy, but fiery; and after this rate
there can be but four places for human Souls to be in, viz. Heaven,
Hell, Purgatory,&#160;and this World; but as for Vehicles, they are
but fancies, not real truths. Then the Empress asked them, Where
Heaven and Hell was? Your Saviour Christ, answered the Spirits, has
informed you, that there is Heaven and Hell, but he did not tell
you what, nor where they are; wherefore it is too great a
presumption for you Mortals to inquire after it: If you do but
strive to get into Heaven, it is enough, though you do not know
where or what it is; for it is beyond your knowledg and
understanding. I am satisfied, replied the Empress; and asked
further, Whether there were any Figures or Characters in the Soul?
They answered, Where there was no Body, there could be no Figure.
Then she asked them, Whether Spirits could be naked? and whether
they were of a dark, or a light colour? As for our Nakedness, it is
a very odd question, answered the Spirits; and we do not know what
you mean by a Naked Spirit; for you judg of us as of corporeal
Creatures; and as for Colour, said they, it is according to our
Vehicles; for Colour belongs to Body, and as there is no Body that
is colourless, so there is no Colour that is bodiless. Then the
Empress desired to be informed, Whether all Souls were made at the
first Creation of the World? We know no more, answered the Spirits,
of the origin of humane Souls, then we know of our Selves. she
asked further, Whether humane bodies were not burthensome to humane
Souls? They answered, That Bodies,&#160;made Souls active, as
giving them motion; and if action was troublesome to Souls, then
Bodies were so too. she asked again, Whether Souls did chuse
Bodies? They answered, That Platonicks believed, the Souls of
Lovers lived in the Bodies of their Beloved, but surely, said they,
if there be a multitude of Souls in a World of Matter, they cannot
miss Bodies; for as soon as a Soul is parted from one Body, it
enters into another; and Souls having no motion of themselves, must
of necessity be clothed or imbodied with the next parts of Matter.
If this be so, replied the Empress, then I pray inform me, Whether
all matter be soulified? The Spirits answered, They could not
exactly tell that; but if it was true, that Matter had no other
motion but what came from a spiritual power, and that all matter
was moving, then no soul could quit a Body, but she must, of
necessity enter into another soulified Body, and then there would
be two immaterial substances in one Body. The Empress asked,
Whether it was not possible that there could be two Souls in one
Body? As for Immaterial Souls, answered the Spirits, it is
impossible; for there cannot be two Immaterials in one Inanimate
Body, by reason they want parts, and place, being bodiless; but
there may be numerous material Souls in one composed Body, by
reason every material part has a material natural Soul; for Nature
is but one Infinite self-moving, living and self-knowing body,
consisting of the three degrees&#160;of inanimate, sensitive and
rational Matter, so intermixt together, that no part of Nature,
were it an Atom, can be without any of these three Degrees; the
sensitive is the Life, the rational the Soul, and the inanimate
part, the Body of Infinite Nature. The Empress was very well
satisfied with this answer, and asked further, Whether souls did
not give life to bodies? No, answered they; but Spirits and Divine
Souls have a life of their own, which is not to be divided, being
purer then a natural life; for Spirits are incorporeal, and
consequently indivisible. But when the Soul is in its Vehicle, said
the Empress, then methinks she is like the Sun, and the Vehicle
like the Moon. No, answered they; but the Vehicle is like the Sun,
and the Soul like the Moon; for the Soul hath motion from the Body,
as the Moon has light from the Sun. Then the Empress asked the
Spirits, Whether it was an evil Spirit that tempted Eve, and
brought all the mischiefs upon Mankind: or, Whether it was the
Serpent? They answered, That Spirits could not commit actual evils.
The Empress said, they might do it by perswasions. They answered,
That Perswasions were actions; But the Empress not being contented
with this answer, asked, Whether there was not a supernatural Evil?
The Spirits answered, That there was a Supernatural Good, which was
God; but they knew of no Supernatural Evil, that was equal to God.
Then she desired to know, Whether Evil Spirits&#160;were reckoned
amongst the Beasts of the Field? They answer'd, That many Beasts of
the field were harmless Creatures, and very serviceable for Man's
use; and though some were accounted fierce and cruel, yet did they
exercise their cruelty upon other Creatures, for the most part, to
no other end, but to get themselves food, and to satisfie their
natural appetite; but certainly, said they, you Men are more cruel
to one another, then evil Spirits are to you; and as for their
habitations in desolate places, we having no communion with them,
can give you no certain account thereof. But what do you think,
said the Empress, of good Spirits? may not they be compared to the
Fowls of the Air? They answered, There were many cruel and ravenous
Fowls as well in the Air, as there were fierce and cruel Beasts on
Earth; so that the good are always mixt with the bad. she asked
further, Whether the fiery Vehicles were a Heaven, or a Hell, or at
least a Purgatory to the Souls? They answered, That if the Souls
were immaterial, they could not burn, and then fire would do them
no harm; and though Hell was believed to be an undecaying and
unquenchable fire, yet Heaven was no fire. The Empress replied,
That Heaven was a Light. Yes, said they, but not a fiery Light.
Then she asked, Whether the different shapes and sorts of Vehicles,
made the Souls and other Immaterial Spirits, miserable, or blessed?
The Vehicles, answered they, make them neither better,
nor&#160;worse; for though some Vehicles sometimes may have power
over others, yet these by turns may get some power again over them,
according to the several advantages and disadvantages of particular
Natural parts. The Empress asked further, Whether Animal life came
out of the spiritual World, and did return thither again? The
Spirits answered, They could not exactly tell; but if it were so,
then certainly Animal lives must leave their bodies behind them,
otherwise the bodies would make the spiritual World a mixt World,
that is, partly material, and partly immaterial; but the Truth is,
said they, Spirits being immaterial, cannot properly make a World;
for a World belongs to material, not to immaterial Creatures. If
this be so, replied the Empress, then certainly there can be no
world of Lives and Forms without Matter? No, answered the Spirits;
nor a world of Matter without Lives and Forms; for Natural Lives
and Forms cannot be immaterial, no more then Matter can be
immovable. And therefore natural lives, forms and matter, are
inseparable. Then the Empress asked, Whether the first Man did feed
on the best sorts of the Fruits of the Earth, and the Beasts on the
worst? The Spirits answered, That unless the Beasts of the field
were barred out of manured fields and gardens, they would pick and
chuse the best Fruits as well as Men; and you may plainly observe
it, said they, in Squirrels and Monkies, how they are the best
Chusers of Nuts and Apples; and how&#160;Birds do pick and feed in
the most delicious fruits, and Worms on the best roots, and most
savoury herbs; by which you may see, that those Creatures live and
feed better then men do, except you will say, that artificial
Cookery is better and more wholsome then the natural. Again, the
Empress asked, Whether the first Man gave Names to all the several
sorts of Fishes in the Sea, and fresh Waters? No, answered the
Spirits, for he was an Earthly, and not a Watery Creature; and
therefore could not know the several sorts of Fishes. Why, replied
the Empress, he was no more an Airy Creature then he was a Watery
one, and yet he gave Names to the several sorts of Fowls and Birds
of the Air. Fowls, answered they, are partly Airy, and partly
Earthly Creatures, not onely because they resemble Beasts and Men
in their flesh, but because their rest and dwelling places are on
Earth; for they build their Nests, lay their Eggs, and hatch their
Young, not in the Air, but on the Earth. Then she asked, Whether
the first Man did give Names to all the various sorts of Creatures
that live on the Earth? Yes, answered they, to all those that were
presented to him, or he had knowledg of, that is, to all the prime
sorts; but not to every particular: for of Mankind, said they,
there were but two at first; and as they did encrease, so did their
Names. But, said the Empress, who gave the Names to the several
sorts of Fish? The posterity of Mankind, answered they. Then she
enquired,&#160;Whether there were no more kinds of Creatures now,
then at the first Creation? They answered, That there were no more
nor fewer kinds of Creatures then there are now; but there are,
without question, more particular sorts of Creatures now, then
there were then. she asked again, Whether all those Creatures that
were in Paradise, were also in Noah's Ark? They answered, That the
principal kinds had been there, but not all the particulars. Then
she would fain know, how it came, that both Spirits and Men did
fall from a blessed into so miserable a state and condition as they
are now in. The Spirits answered, By disobedience. The Empress
asked, Whence this disobedient sin did proceed? But the Spirits
desired the Empress not to ask them any such questions, because
they went beyond their knowledg. Then she begg'd the Spirits to
pardon her presumption; for, said she, It is the nature of Mankind
to be inquisitive. Natural desire of knowledg, answered the
Spirits, is not blameable, so you do not go beyond what your
Natural Reason can comprehend. Then I'le ask no more, said the
Empress, for fear I should commit some error; but one thing I
cannot but acquaint you withal: What is that, said the Spirits? I
have a great desire, answered the Empress, to make a Cabbala. What
kind of Cabbala asked the Spirits? The Empress answered, The Jews
Cabbala. No sooner had the Empress declared her Mind, but the
Spirits immediately disappeared&#160;out of her sight; which
startled the Empress so much, that she fell into a Trance, wherein
she lay for some while; at last being come to her self again, she
grew very studious, and considering with her self what might be the
cause of this strange dysaster, conceived at first, that perhaps
the Spirits were tired with hearing and giving answers to her
Questions; but thinking by her self, That Spirits could not be
tired, she imagined that this was not the true cause of their
disappearing, till, after divers debates with her own thoughts, she
did verily believe that the Spirits had committed some fault in
their answers, and that for their punishment they were condemned to
the lowest and darkest Vehicles. This belief was so fixt in her
mind, that it put her into a very Melancholick humor; and then she
sent both for her Fly-men and Worm-men, and declared to them the
cause of her sadness. 'Tis not so much, said she, the vanishing of
those Spirits that makes me Melancholick, but that I should be the
cause of their miserable condition, and that those harmless Spirits
should, for my sake, sink down into the black and dark abyss of the
Earth. The Worm-men comforted the Empress, telling her, That the
Earth was not so horrid a Dwelling, as she did imagine; for, said
they, not onely all Minerals and Vegetables, but several sorts of
Animals can witness, that the Earth is a warm, fruitful, quiet,
safe, and happy habitation; and though they want the light of the
Sun, yet are they not in the dark, but there is light&#160;even
within the Earth, by which those Creatures do see that dwell
therein. This relation setled her Majesties mind a little; but yet
she being desirous to know the Truth, where, and in what condition
those Spirits were, commanded both the Fly- and Worm-men to use all
labour and industry to find them out; whereupon the Worm-men
straight descended into the Earth, and the Fly-men ascended into
the Air. After some short time, the Worm-men returned, and told the
Empress, that when they went into the Earth, they inquired of all
the Creatures they met withal, Whether none of them had perceived
such or such Spirits; until at last coming to the very Center of
the Earth, they were truly informed, that those Spirits had stayed
some time there, but at last were gone to the Antipodes on the
other side of the Terrestrial Globe, diametrically opposite to
theirs. The Fly-men seconded the Wormmen, assuring her Majesty,
that their relation was very true; for, said they, We have rounded
the Earth, and just when we came to the Antipodes, we met those
Spirits in a very good condition, and acquainted them that your
Majesty was very much troubled at their sudden departure, and
fear'd they should be buried in the darkness of the Earth:
whereupon the Spirits answered us, That they were sorry for having
occasioned such sadness and trouble in your Majesty; and desired us
to tell your Majesty, that they feared no darkness; for their
Vehicles were of such a sort of&#160;substance as Cats eyes,
Glow-worms tails, and rotten Wood, carrying their light along with
them; and that they were ready to do your Majesty what service they
could, in making your Cabbala. At which Relation the Empress was
exceedingly glad, and rewarded both her Fly- and Worm-men
bountifully.

After some time, when the Spirits had refreshed themselves in
their own Vehicles, they sent one of their nimblest Spirits, to ask
the Empress, Whether she would have a Scribe, or, whether she would
write the Cabbala her self? The Empress received the proffer which
they made her, with all civility; and told them, that she desired a
Spiritual Scribe. The Spirits answer'd, That they could dictate,
but not write, except they put on a hand or arm, or else the whole
body of Man. The Empress replied, How can Spirits arm themselves
with gantlets of Flesh? As well, answered they, as Man can arm
himself with a gantlet of steel. If it be so, said the Empress,
then I will have a Scribe. Then the Spirits asked her, Whether she
would have the Soul of a living or a dead Man? Why, said the
Empress, can the Soul quit a living Body, and wander or travel
abroad? Yes, answered they, for according to Plato's Doctrine,
there is a Conversation of Souls, and the Souls of Lovers live in
the Bodies of their Beloved. Then I will have, answered she, the
Soul of some ancient famous Writer, either of Aristotle,
Pythagoras, Plato, Epicurus, or the like. The&#160;Spirits said,
That those famous Men were very learned, subtile, and ingenious
Writers; but they were so wedded to their own opinions, that they
would never have the patience to be Scribes. Then, said she, I'le
have the Soul of one of the most famous modern Writers, as either
of Galileo, Gassendus, Des Cartes, Helmont, Hobbes, H. More,
&amp;c. The Spirits answered, That they were fine ingenious
Writers, but yet so self-conceited, that they would scorn to be
Scribes to a Woman. But, said they, there's a Lady, the Duchess of
Newcastle; which although she is not one of the most learned,
eloquent, witty and ingenious, yet she is a plain and rational
Writer; for the principle of her Writings, is Sense and Reason, and
she will without question, be ready to do you all the service she
can. That Lady then, said the Empress, will I chuse for my Scribe,
neither will the Emperor have reason to be jealous, she being one
of my own sex. In truth, said the Spirit, Husbands have reason to
be jealous of Platonick Lovers, for they are very dangerous, as
being not onely intimate and close, but subtil and insinuating. You
say well, replied the Empress; wherefore I pray send me the Duchess
of Newcastle's Soul; which the Spirit did; and after she came to
wait on the Empress, at her first arrival the Empress imbraced and
saluted her with a Spiritual kiss; then she asked her whether she
could write? Yes, answered the Duchess's Soul, but not so
intelligibly that any Reader&#160;whatsoever may understand it,
unless he be taught to know my Characters; for my Letters are
rather like Characters, then well formed Letters. Said the Empress,
you were recommended to me by an honest and ingenious Spirit.
Surely, answered the Duchess, the Spirit is ignorant of my
hand-writing. The truth is, said the Empress, he did not mention
your hand-writing; but he informed me, that you writ Sense and
Reason, and if you can but write so, that any of my Secretaries may
learn your hand, they shall write it out fair and intelligible. The
Duchess answered, That she questioned not but it might easily be
learned in a short time. But, said she to the Empress, What is it
that your Majesty would have written? she answered, The Jews
Cabbala. Then your onely way for that is, said the Duchess, to have
the Soul of some famous Jew; nay, if your Majesty please, I scruple
not, but you may as easily have the Soul of Moses, as of any other.
That cannot be, replied the Empress, for no Mortal knows where
Moses is. But, said the Duchess, humane Souls are immortal;
however, if this be too difficult to be obtained, you may have the
Soul of one of the chief Rabbies or Sages of the Tribe of Levi, who
will truly instruct you in that mystery; when as, otherwise, your
Majesty will be apt to mistake, and a thousand to one, will commit
gross errors. No, said the Empress, for I shall be instructed by
Spirits. Alas! said the Duchess, Spirits are as ignorant as Mortals
in many cases; for&#160;no created Spirits have a general or
absolute knowledg, nor can they know the Thoughts of Men, much less
the Mysteries of the great Creator, unless he be pleased to inspire
into them the gift of Divine Knowledg. Then, I pray, said the
Empress, let me have your counsel in this case. The Duchess
answered, If your Majesty will be pleased to hearken to my advice,
I would desire you to let that work alone; for it will be of no
advantage either to you, or your people, unless you were of the
Jews Religion; nay, if you were, the vulgar interpretation of the
holy Scripture would be more instructive, and more easily believed,
then your mystical way of interpreting it; for had it been better
and more advantagious for the Salvation of the Jews, surely Moses
would have saved after-Ages that labour by his own Explanation, he
being not onely a wise, but a very honest, zealous and religious
Man: Wherefore the best way, said she, is to believe with the
generality the literal sense of the Scripture, and not to make
interpretations every one according to his own fancy, but to leave
that work for the Learned, or those that have nothing else to do;
Neither do I think, said she, that God will damn those that are
ignorant therein, or suffer them to be lost for want of a Mystical
interpretation of the Scripture. Then, said the Empress, I'le leave
the Scripture, and make a Philosophical Cabbala. The Duchess told
her, That, Sense and Reason would instruct her of a Nature as much
as&#160;could be known; and as for Numbers, they were infinite; but
to add non-sense to infinite, would breed a confusion, especially
in Humane Understanding. Then, replied the Empress, I'le make a
Moral Cabbala. The onely thing, answered the Duchess, in Morality,
is but, To fear God, and to love his Neighbour, and this needs no
further interpretation. But then I'le make a Political Cabbala,
said the Empress. The Duchess answered, That the chief and onely
ground in Government, was but Reward and Punishment, and required
no further Cabbala; But, said she, If your Majesty were resolved to
make a Cabbala, I would advise you, rather to make a Poetical or
Romancical Cabbala, wherein you may use Metaphors, Allegories,
Similitudes, &amp;c. and interpret them as you please. With that
the Empress thank'd the Duchess, and embracing her Soul, told her
she would take her Counsel: she made her also her Favourite, and
kept her sometime in that World, and by this means the Duchess came
to know and give this Relation of all that passed in that rich,
populous, and happy World; and after some time the Empress gave her
leave to return to her Husband and Kindred into her Native World,
but upon condition, that her Soul should visit her now and then;
which she did: and truly their meeting did produce such an intimate
friendship between them, that they became Platonick Lovers,
although they were both Femals.

One time, when the Duchess her Soul was with the Empress, she
seem'd to be very sad and melancholy; at which the Empress was very
much troubled, and asked her the reason of her Melancholick humour?
Truly, said the Duchess to the Empress, (for between dear friends
there's no concealment, they being like several parts of one united
body) my Melancholy proceeds from an extream Ambition. The Empress
asked, What the height of her ambition was? The Duchess answered,
That neither she her self, nor no Creature in the World was able to
know either the height, depth, or breadth of her Ambition; but said
she, my present desire is, that I would be a great Princess. The
Empress replied, so you are; for you are a Princess of the fourth
or fifth Degree, for a Duke or Duchess is the highest title or
honour that a subject can arrive to, as being the next to a King's
Title; and as for the name of a Prince of Princess, it belongs to
all that are adopted to the Crown; so that those that can add a
Crown to their Arms, are Princes, and therefore a Duke is a Title
above a Prince; for example, the Duke of Savoy, the Duke of
Florence, the Duke of Lorrain, as also Kings Brothers, are not
called by the name of Princes, but Dukes, this being the higher
Title. 'Tis true, answered the Duchess, unless it be Kings Eldest
sons, and they are created Princes. Yes, replied the Empress, but
no soveraign does make a subject equal to himself, such as Kings
eldest sons partly are:&#160;And although some Dukes be soveraigns,
yet I have heard that a Prince by his Title is soveraign, by reason
the Title of a Prince is more a Title of Honour, then of
soveraignty; for, as I said before, it belongs to all that are
adopted to the Crown. Well, said the Duchess, setting aside this
dispute, my Ambition is, That I would fain be as you are, that is,
an Empress of a World, and I shall never be at quiet until I be
one. I love you so well, replied the Empress, that I wish with all
my soul, you had the fruition of your ambitious desire, and I shall
not fail to give you my best advice how to accomplish it; the best
informers are the Immaterial Spirits, and they'l soon tell you,
Whether it be possible to obtain your wish. But, said the Duchess,
I have little acquaintance with them, for I never knew any before
the time you sent for me. They know you, replied the Empress; for
they told me of you, and were the means and instrument of your
coming hither: Wherefore I'le conferr with them, and enquire
whether there be not another World, whereof you may be Empress as
well as I am of this? No sooner had the Empress said this, but some
Immaterial Spirits came to visit her, of whom she inquired, Whether
there were but three Worlds in all, to wit, the Blazing World where
she was in, the World which she came from, and the World where the
Duchess lived? The Spirits answered, That there were more numerous
Worlds then the Stars which appeared in these three mentioned
Worlds.&#160;Then the Empress asked, Whether it was not possible
that her dearest friend the Duchess of Newcastle, might be Empress
of one of them? Although there be numerous, nay, infinite Worlds,
answered the Spirits, yet none is without Government. But is none
of these Worlds so weak, said she, that it may be surprized or
conquered? The Spirits answered, That Lucian's World of Lights, had
been for some time in a snuff, but of late years one Helmont had
got it, who since he was Emperour of it, had so strengthened the
Immortal parts thereof with mortal out-works, as it was for the
present impregnable. said the Empress, If there be such an Infinite
number of Worlds, I am sure, not onely my friend, the Duchess, but
any other might obtain one. Yes, answered the Spirits, if those
Worlds were uninhabited; but they are as populous as this your
Majesty governs. Why, said the Empress, it is not possible to
conquer a World. No, answered the Spirits, but, for the most part,
Conquerers seldom enjoy their conquest, for they being more feared
then loved, most commonly come to an untimely end. If you will but
direct me, said the Duchess to the Spirits, which World is easiest
to be conquered, her Majesty will assist me with Means, and I will
trust to Fate and Fortune; for I had rather die in the adventure of
noble atchievements, then live in obscure and sluggish security;
since the by one, I may live in a glorious Fame; and by the other I
am buried&#160;in oblivion. The Spirits answered, That the lives of
Fame were like other lives; for some lasted long, and some died
soon. 'Tis true, said the Duchess; but yet the shortest-liv'd Fame
lasts longer then the longest life of Man. But, replied the
Spirits, if occasion does not serve you, you must content your self
to live without such atchievements that may gain you a Fame: But we
wonder, proceeded the Spirits, that you desire to be Empress of a
Terrestrial World, when as you can create your self a Cœlestial
World if you please. What, said the Empress, can any Mortal be a
Creator? Yes, answered the Spirits; for every human Creature can
create an Immaterial World fully inhabited by Immaterial Creatures,
and populous of Immaterial subjects, such as we are, and all this
within the compass of the head or scull; nay, not onely so, but he
may create a World of what fashion and Government he will, and give
the Creatures thereof such motions, figures, forms, colours,
perceptions, &amp;c. as he pleases, and make Whirl-pools, Lights,
Pressures, and Reactions, &amp;c. as he thinks best; nay, he may
make a World full of Veins, Muscles, and Nerves, and all these to
move by one jolt or stroke: also he may alter that World as often
as he pleases, or change it from a Natural World, to an Artificial;
he may make a World of Ideas, a World of Atoms, a World of Lights,
or whatsoever his Fancy leads him to. And since it is in your power
to create such a World, What&#160;need you to venture life,
reputation and tranquility, to conquer a gross material World? For
you can enjoy no more of a material world then a particular
Creature is able to enjoy, which is but a small part, considering
the compass of such a world; and you may plainly observe it by your
friend the Empress here, which although she possesses a whole
World, yet enjoys she but a part thereof; neither is she so much
acquainted with it, that she know all the places, Countries, and
Dominions she Governs. The truth is, a soveraign Monarch has the
general trouble; but the Subjects enjoy all the delights and
pleasures in parts, for it is impossible, that a Kingdom, nay, a
Country, should be injoyed by one person at once, except he take
the pains to travel into every part, and endure the inconveniencies
of going from one place to another? wherefore, since glory,
delight, and pleasure lives but in other mens opinions, and can
neither add tranquility to your mind nor give ease to your body,
Why should you desire to be Empress of a Material World, and be
troubled with the cares that attend Government? when as by creating
a World within your self, you may enjoy all both in whole and in
parts, without controle or opposition; and may make what World you
please, and alter it when you please, and enjoy as much pleasure
and delight as a World can afford you? You have converted me, said
the Duchess to the Spirits, from my ambitious desire; wherefore,
I'le take your advice,&#160;reject and despise all the Worlds
without me, and create a World of my own. The Empress said, If I do
make such a world, then I shall be Mistress of two Worlds, one
within, and the other without me. That your Majesty may, said the
Spirits; and so left these two Ladies to create two Worlds within
themselves: who did also part from each other, until such time as
they had brought their Worlds to perfection. The Duchess of
Newcastle was most earnest and industrious to make her World,
because she had none at present; and first she resolved to frame it
according to the opinion of Thales, but she found her self so much
troubled with Dæmons, that they would not suffer her to take her
own will, but forced her to obey their orders and commands; which
she being unwilling to do, left off from making a world that way,
and began to frame one according to Pythagoras's Doctrine; but in
the Creation thereof, she was so puzled with numbers, how to order
and compose the several parts, that she having no skill in
Arithmetick, was forced also to desist from the making of that
World. Then she intended to create a World according to the opinion
of Plato; but she found more trouble and difficulty in that, then
in the two former; for the numerous Idea's having no other motion
but what was derived from her mind, whence they did flow and issue
out, made it a far harder business to her, to impart motion to
them, then Puppit-players have in giving motion to every several
Puppit; in&#160;so much, that her patience was not able to endure
the trouble which those Ideas caused her; wherefore she annihilated
also that World, and was resolved to make one according to the
Opinion of Epicurus; which she had no sooner begun, but the
infinite Atoms made such a mist, that it quite blinded the
perception of her mind; neither was she able to make a Vacuum as a
receptacle for those Atoms, or a place which they might retire
into; so that partly for the want of it, and of a good order and
method, the confusion of those Atoms produced such strange and
monstrous figures, as did more affright then delight her, and
caused such a Chaos in her mind, as had almost dissolved it. At
last, having with much ado cleansed and cleared her mind of these
dusty and misty particles, she endeavored to create a World
according to Aristotle's Opinion; but remembring that her mind, as
most of the Learned hold it, was Immaterial, and that, according to
Aristotle's Principle, out of Nothing, Nothing could be made; she
was forced also to desist from that work, and then she fully
resolved, not to take any more patterns from the Ancient
Philosophers, but to follow the Opinions of the Moderns; and to
that end, she endeavoured to make a World according to Des Cartes
Opinion; but when she had made the Æthereal Globules, and set them
a moving by a strong and lively imagination, her mind became so
dizzie with their extraordinary swift turning round, that it almost
put her into a swoon;&#160;for her thoughts, but their constant
tottering, did so stagger, as if they had all been drunk: wherefore
she dissolved that World, and began to make another, according to
Hobbs's Opinion; but when all the parts of this Imaginary World
came to press and drive each other, they seemed like a company of
Wolves that worry sheep, or like so many Dogs that hunt after
Hares; and when she found a re-action equal to those pressures, her
mind was so squeezed together, that her thoughts could neither move
forward nor backward, which caused such an horrible pain in her
head, that although she had dissolved that World, yet she could
not, without much difficulty, settle her mind, and free it from
that pain which those pressures and reactions had caused in it.

At last, when the Duchess saw that no patterns would do her any
good in the framing of her World; she was resolved to make a World
of her own Invention, and this World was composed of sensitive and
rational self-moving Matter; indeed, it was composed onely of the
Rational, which is the subtilest and purest degree of Matter; for
as the Sensitive did move and act both to the perceptions and
consistency of the body, so this degree of Matter at the same point
of time (for though the degrees are mixt, yet the several parts may
move several ways at one time) did move to the Creation of the
Imaginary World; which World after it was made, appear'd so curious
and full of variety,&#160;so well order'd and wisely govern'd, that
it cannot possibly be expressed by words, nor the delight and
pleasure which the Duchess took in making this
World-of-her-own.

In the mean time the Empress was also making and dissolving
several Worlds in her own mind, and was so puzled, that she could
not settle in any of them; wherefore she sent for the Duchess, who
being ready to wait on the Empress, carried her beloved World along
with her, and invited the Empress's Soul to observe the Frame,
Order and Government of it. Her Majesty was so ravished with the
perception of it, that her Soul desired to live in the Duchess's
World: But the Duchess advised her to make such another World in
her own mind; for, said she, your Majesty's mind is full of
rational corporeal motions; and the rational motions of my mind
shall assist you by the help of sensitive expressions, with the
best Instructions they are able to give you.

The Empress being thus perswaded by the Duchess to make an
imaginary World of her own, followed her advice; and after she had
quite finished it, and framed all kinds of Creatures proper and
useful for it, strengthened it with good Laws, and beautified it
with Arts and Sciences; having nothing else to do, unless she did
dissolve her Imaginary World, or made some alterations in the
Blazing-World, she lived in; which yet she could hardly do, by
reason it was so well ordered&#160;that it could not be mended; for
it was governed without secret and deceiving Policy; neither was
there any ambitious, factions, malicious detractions, civil
dissentions, or home-bred quarrels, divisions in Religion, Foreign
Wars, &amp;c. but all the people lived in a peaceful society,
united Tranquility, and Religious Conformity. she was desirious to
see the World the Duchess came from, and observe therein the
several sovereign Governments, Laws and Customs of several Nations.
The Duchess used all the means she could, to divert her from that
Journey, telling her, that the World she came from, was very much
disturbed with Factions, Divisions and Wars; but the Empress would
not be perswaded from her design; and lest the Emperor, or any of
his subjects should know of her travel, and obstruct her design;
she sent for some of the Spirits she had formerly conversed withal,
and inquired whether none of them could supply the place of her
soul in her body at such a time, when she was gone to travel into
another World? They answered, Yes, they could; for not onely one,
said they, but many Spirits may enter into your body, if you
please. The Empress replied, she desired but one Spirit to be Vice-
Roy of her body in the absence of her Soul, but it must be an
honest and ingenious Spirit; and if it was possible, a female
Spirit. The Spirits told her, that there was no difference of Sexes
amongst them; but, said they, we will chuse an honest and ingenious
Spirit,&#160;and such a one as shall so resemble your soul, that
neither the Emperor, nor any of his Subjects, although the most
Divine, shall know whether it be your own soul, or not: which the
Empress was very glad at, and after the Spirits were gone, asked
the Duchess, how her body was supplied in the absence of her soul?
who answered Her Majesty, That her body, in the absence of her
soul, was governed by her sensitive and rational corporeal motions.
Thus those two Female Souls travelled together as lightly as two
thoughts into the Duchess her native World; and, which is
remarkable, in a moment viewed all the parts of it, and all the
actions of all the Creatures therein, especially did the Empress's
Soul take much notice of the several actions of humane Creatures in
all the several Nations and parts of that World, and wonder'd that
for all there were so many several Nations, Governments, Laws,
Religions, Opinions, &amp;c. they should all yet so generally agree
in being Ambitious, Proud, Self-conceited, Vain, Prodigal,
Deceitful, Envious, Malicious, Unjust, Revengeful, Irreligious,
Factious, &amp;c. she did also admire, that not any particular
State, Kingdom or Common-wealth, was contented with their own
shares, but endeavoured to encroach upon their Neighbours, and that
their greatest glory was in Plunder and Slaughter, and yet their
victory's less then their expences, and their losses more than
their gains; but their being overcome, in a manner their utter
ruine:&#160;But that she wonder'd most at, was, that they should
prize or value dirt more then mens lives, and vanity more then
tranquility: for the Emperor of a world, said she, injoys but a
part, not the whole; so that his pleasure consists in the Opinions
of others. It is strange to me, answered the Duchess, that you
should say thus, being your self, an Empress of a World; and not
onely of a world, but of a peaceable, quiet, and obedient world.
'Tis true, replied the Empress: but although it is a peaceable and
obedient world, yet the Government thereof is rather a trouble,
then a pleasure; for order cannot be without industry, contrivance,
and direction: besides, the Magnificent state, that great Princes
keep or ought to keep, is troublesome. Then by your Majestie's
discourse, said the Duchess, I perceive that the greatest happiness
in all the Worlds consist in Moderation: No doubt of it, replied
the Empress; and after these two souls had visited all the several
places, Congregations and Assemblies both in Religion and State,
the several Courts of Judicature and the like, in several Nations,
the Empress said, That of all the Monarchs of the several parts of
the World, she had observed the Grand-Seignior was the greatest;
for his word was a Law, and his power absolute. But the Duchess
pray'd the Empress to pardon her that she was of another mind; for,
said she, he cannot alter Mahomets Laws and Religion; so that the
Law and Church do govern the Emperor, and not the
Emperor&#160;them. But, replied the Empress, he has power in some
particulars; as for example, To place and displace Subjects in
their particular Governments of Church and State; and having that,
he has the Command both over Church and State, and none dares
oppose him. 'Tis true, said the Duchess; but if it pleases your
Majesty, we will go into that part of the World whence I came to
wait on your Majesty, and there you shall see as powerful a Monarch
as the Grand Signior; for though his Dominions are not of so large
extent, yet they are much stronger, his Laws are easie and safe,
and he governs so justly and wisely, that his Subjects are the
happiest people of all the Nations or parts of that World. This
Monarch, said the Empress, I have a great mind to see. Then they
both went, and in a short time arrived into his Dominions; but
coming into the Metropolitan City, the Empress's Soul observed many
Gallants go into an House; and enquiring of the Duchess's Soul,
what House that was? she told her, It was one of the Theatres where
Comedies and Tragedies were acted. The Empress asked, Whether they
were real? No, said the Duchess, they are feigned. Then the Empress
desired to enter into the Theatre; and when she had seen the Play
that was asked, the Duchess asked her how she liked that
Recreation? I like it very well, said the Empress; but I observe
that the Actors make a better show than the Spectators; and the
Scenes a better than&#160;the Actors and the Musick and Dancing is
more pleasant and acceptable than the Play it self; for I see, the
Scenes stand for Wit, the Dancing for Humour, and the Musick is the
Chorus. I am sorry, replied the Duchess, to hear your Majesty say
so; for if the Wits of this part of the World should hear you, they
would condemn you. What, said the Empress, would they condemn me
for preferring a natural Face before a Sign-post; or a natural
Humour before an artificial Dance; or Musick before a true and
profitable Relation? As for Relation, replied the Duchess, our
Poets defie and condemn it into a Chimney-corner, fitter for old
Womens Tales, than Theatres. Why, said the Empress do not your
Poets Actions comply with their Judgments? For their Plays are
composed of old Stories, either of Greek or Roman, or some
new-found World. The Duchess answered Her Majesty, That it was
true, that all or most of their Plays were taken out of old
Stories; but yet they had new Actions, which being joined to old
Stories, together with the addition of new Prologues, Scenes,
Musick and Dancing, made new Plays.

After this, both the Souls went to the Court, where all the
Royal Family was together, attended by the chief of the Nobles of
their Dominions, which made a very magnificent Show; and when the
Soul of the Empress viewed the King and Queen, she seemed to be in
a maze, which the Duchess's Soul perceiving, asked&#160;the Empress
how she liked the King, the Queen, and all the Royal Race? she
answered, that in all the Monarchs she had seen in that World, she
had not found so much Majesty and Affability mixt so exactly
together, that none did overshadow or eclipse the other; and as for
the Queen, she said that Vertue sat Triumphant in her face, and
Piety was dwelling in her heart; and that all the Royal Family
seem'd to be endued with a Divine splendor: but when she had heard
the King discourse, she believ'd that Mercury and Apollo had been
his Cœlestial Instructors; and, my dear Lord and Husband, added the
Duchess, has been his Earthly Governor. But after some short stay
in the Court, the Duchess's soul grew very Melancholy; the Empress
asking the cause of her sadness? she told her, That she had an
extreme desire to converse with the soul of her Noble Lord and dear
Husband, and that she was inpatient of a longer stay. The Empress
desired the Duchess to have but patience so long, until the King,
the Queen, and the Royal Family were retired, and then she would
bear her Company to her Lord and Husband's Soul, who at that time
lived in the Country some 112 miles off; which she did: and thus
these two souls went towards those parts of the Kingdom where the
Duke of Newcastle was.

But one thing I forgot all this while, which is, That although
thoughts are the natural language of Souls; yet by reason Souls
cannot travel without Vehicles,&#160;they use such language as the
nature and propriety of their Vehicles require, and the Vehicles of
those two souls being made of the purest and finest sort of air,
and of a human shape: This purity and fineness was the cause that
they could neither be seen nor heard by any human Creature; when
as, had they been of some grosser sort of Air, the sound of the
Air's language would have been as perceptible as the blowing of
Zephyrus.

And now to return to my former Story; when the Empress's and
Duchess's Soul were travelling into Nottinghamshire, (for that was
the place where the Duke did reside) passing through the Forrest of
sherewood, the Empress's Soul was very much delighted with it, as
being a dry, plain and woody place, very pleasant to travel in,
both in Winter and Summer; for it is neither much dirty nor dusty
at no time: At last they arrived at Welbeck, a House where the Duke
dwell'd, surrounded all with Wood, so close and full, that the
Empress took great pleasure and delight therein, and told the
Duchess she never had observed more Wood in so little compass in
any part of the Kingdom she had passed through. The truth is, said
she, there seems to be more Wood on the Seas (she meaning the
Ships) than on the Land. The Duchess told her, The reason was, that
there had been a long Civil Warr in that Kingdom, in which most of
the best Timber-trees and Principal Palaces were ruined and
destroyed; and&#160;my dear Lord and Husband, said she, has lost by
it half his Woods, besides many Houses, Land, and movable Goods; so
that all the loss out of his particular Estate, did amount to above
Half a Million of Pounds. I wish, said the Empress, he had some of
the Gold that is in the Blazing-world, to repair his losses. The
Duchess most humbly thank'd her Imperial Majesty for her kind
wishes; but, said she, Wishes will not repair his ruins: however,
God has given my Noble Lord and Husband great Patience, by which he
bears all his losses and misfortunes. As last they enter'd into the
Duke's House, an Habitation not so magnificent as useful; and when
the Empress saw it, Has the Duke, said she, no other House but
this? Yes, answered the Duchess, some five miles from this place he
has a very fine Castle called Bolesover. That place, then, said the
Empress, I desire to see. Alas, replied the Duchess, it is but a
naked House, and uncloath'd of all Furniture. However, said the
Empress, I may see the manner of its structure and building. That
you may, replied the Duchess, and as they were thus discoursing,
the Duke came out of the House into the Court, to see his Horses of
Manage; whom when the Duchess's Soul perceived, she was so
overjoyed, that her Aereal Vehicle became so splendorous, as if it
had been enlightned by the Sun; by which we may perceive, that the
passions of Souls or Spirits can alter their bodily Vehicles. Then
these two Ladies Spirits went close to him, but he&#160;could not
perceive them; and after the Empress had observed that Art of
Mannage, she was much pleased with it, and commended it as a noble
pastime, and an exercise fit and proper for noble and heroick
Persons. But when the Duke was gone into the house again, those two
Souls followed him; where the Empress observing, that he went to
the exercise of the sword, and was such an excellent and
unparallel'd Master thereof, she was as much pleased with that
exercise, as she was with the former: But the Duchess's Soul being
troubled, that her dear Lord and Husband used such a violent
exercise before meat, for fear of overheating himself, without any
consideration of the Empress's Soul, left her Æreal Vehicle, and
entred into her Lord. The Empress's Soul perceiving this, did the
like: And then the Duke had three Souls in one Body; and had there
been some such Souls more, the Duke would have been like the
Grand-Signior in his Seraglio, onely it would have been a Platonick
Seraglio. But the Duke's Soul being wise, honest, witty,
complaisant and noble, afforded such delight and pleasure to the
Empress's Soul by his conversation, that these two souls became
enamoured of each other; which the Duchess's soul perceiving, grew
jealous at first, but then considering that no Adultery could be
committed amongst Platonick Lovers, and that Platonism, was Divine,
as being derived from Divine Plato, cast forth of her mind that
Idea of Jealousie. Then the Conversation&#160;of these three souls
was so pleasant, that it cannot be expressed; for the Duke's Soul
entertained the Empress's Soul with Scenes, songs, Musick, witty
Discourses, pleasant Recreations, and all kinds of harmless sports,
so that the time passed away faster than they expected. At last a
Spirit came and told the Empress, That although neither the Emperor
nor any of his Subjects knew that her Soul was absent; yet the
Emperor's Soul was so sad and melancholy for want of His own
beloved Soul, that all the Imperial Court took notice of it.
Wherefore he advised the Empress's Soul to return into the
Blazing-world, into her own Body she left there; which both the
Duke's and Duchess's Soul was very sorry for, and wished that, if
it had been possible, the Empress's Soul might have stayed a longer
time with them; but seeing it could not be otherwise, they pacified
themselves. But before the Empress returned into the Blazing-world,
the Duchess desired a Favour of her, to wit, That she would be
pleased to make an Agreement between her Noble Lord, and Fortune.
Why, said the Empress, are they Enemies? Yes, answered the Duchess,
and they have been so ever since I have been his Wife: nay, I have
heard my Lord say, That she hath crossed him in all things, ever
since he could remember. I am sorry for that, replied the Empress;
but I cannot discourse with Fortune, without the help of an
Immaterial Spirit, and that cannot be done in this World; for I
have no&#160;Fly nor Bird-men here, to send into the Region of the
Air, where, for the most part, their Habitations are. The Duchess
said, she would entreat her Lord to send an Attorney or Lawyer to
plead his Cause. Fortune will bribe them, replied the Empress, and
so the Duke may chance to be cast: Wherefore the best way will be,
for the Duke to chuse a Friend on his side, and let Fortune chuse
another, and try whether by this means it be possible to compose
the Difference. The Duchess said, They will never come to an
agreement, unless there be a Judg or Umpire to decide the Case. A
Judg, replied the Empress, is easie to be had; but to get an
Impartial Judg, is a thing so difficult, that I doubt we shall
hardly find one; for there is none to be had, neither in Nature,
nor in Hell, but onely from Heaven; and how to get such a Divine
and Celestial Judg, I cannot tell: Nevertheless, if you will go
along with me into the Blazing-world, I'le try what may be done.
'Tis my duty, said the Duchess, to wait on your Majesty, and I
shall most willingly do it, for I have no other interest to
consider. Then the Duchess spake to the Duke concerning the
difference between him and Fortune, and how it was her desire that
they might be friends. The Duke answered, That for his part he had
always with great industry sought her friendship, but as yet he
could never obtain it, for she had always been his Enemy. However,
said he, I'le try and send my two Friends, Prudence
and&#160;Honesty, to plead my Cause. Then these two Friends went
with the Duchess and the Empress into the Blazing-World; (for it is
to be observed, that they are somewhat like Spirits, because they
are Immaterial, although their actions are corporeal:) and after
their arrival there, when the Empress had refreshed her self, and
rejoiced with the Emperor, she sent her Fly-men for some of the
Spirits, and desired their assistance, to compose the difference
between Fortune, and the Duke of Newcastle. But they told her
Majesty, That Fortune was so inconstant, that although she would
perhaps promise to hear their Cause pleaded, yet it was a thousand
to one, whether she would ever have the patience to do it:
Nevertheless, upon Her Majestie's request, they tried their utmost,
and at last prevailed with Fortune so far, that she chose Folly and
Rashness, for her Friends, but they could not agree in chusing a
Judg; until at last, with much ado, they concluded, that Truth
should hear, and decide the cause. Thus all being prepared, and the
time appointed, both the Empress and Duchess's Soul went to hear
them plead; and when all the Immaterial Company was met, Fortune
standing upon a Golden-Globe, made this following Speech:

Noble Friends, We are met here to hear a Cause pleaded
concerning the difference between the Duke of Newcastle, and my
self; and though I am willing upon the perswasions of the
Ambassadors of the Empress, the Immaterial&#160;Spirits, to yield
to it, yet it had been fit, the Duke's Soul should be present also,
to speak for her self; but since she is not here, I shall declare
my self to his Wife, and his Friends, as also to my Friends,
especially the Empress, to whom I shall chiefly direct my Speech.
First, I desire your Imperial Majesty may know, that this Duke who
complains or exclaims so much against me, hath been always my
enemy; for he has preferred Honesty and Prudence before me, and
slighted all my favours; nay, not onely thus, but he did fight
against me, and preferred his Innocence before my Power. His
Friends Honesty and Prudence, said he most scornfully, are more to
be regarded, than Inconstant Fortune, who is onely a friend to
Fools and Knaves; for which neglect and scorn, whether I have not
just reason to be his enemy, your Majesty may judg your self.

After Fortune had thus ended her Speech, the Duchess's Soul rose
from her seat, and spake to the Immaterial Assembly in this
manner:
