
Noble Friends, I think it fit, by your leave, to answer Lady
Fortune in the behalf of my Noble Lord and Husband, since he is not
here himself; and since you have heard her complaint concerning the
choice my Lord made of his Friends, and the neglect and disrespect
he seemed to cast upon her; give me leave to answer, that, first
concerning the Choice of his Friends, He has proved himself a wise
man in it; and as for the disrespect and rudeness her Ladiship
accuses him of, I dare say he is so much a Gentleman, that I am
confident he would never slight, scorn or disrespect&#160;any of
the Female Sex in all his life time; but was such a servant and
Champion for them, that he ventured Life and Estate in their
service; but being of an honest, as well as an honourable Nature,
he could not trust Fortune with that which he preferred above his
life, which was his Reputation, by reason Fortune did not side with
those that were honest and honourable, but renounced them; and
since he could not be of both sides, he chose to be of that which
was agreeable both to his Conscience, Nature and Education; for
which choice Fortune did not onely declare her self his open Enemy,
but fought with him in several Battels; nay, many times, hand to
hand; at last, she being a Powerful Princess, and as some believe,
a Deity, overcame him, and cast him into a Banishment, where she
kept him in great misery, ruined his Estate, and took away from him
most of his Friends; nay, even when she favoured many that were
against her, she still frowned on him; all which he endured with
the greatest patience, and with that respect to Lady Fortune, that
he did never in the least endeavour to disoblige any of her
Favourites, but was onely sorry that he, an honest man, could find
no favor in her Court; and since he did never injure any of those
she favoured, he neither was an enemy to her Ladiship, but gave her
always that respect and worship which belonged to her power and
dignity, and is still ready at any time honestly and prudently to
serve her; he onely begs, her Ladiship would be his friend for the
future, as she hath been his enemy in times past.

As soon as the Duchess's Speech was ended, Folly and Rashness
started up, and both spake so thick and fast at once, that not
onely the Assembly, but themselves were not able to understand each
other: At which Fortune was somewhat out of countenance; and
commanded them either to speak singly, or be silent: But Prudence
told her Ladiship, she should command them to speak wisely, as well
as singly; otherwise, said she, it were best for them not to speak
at all: Which Fortune resented very ill, and told Prudence, she was
too bold; and then commanded Folly to declare what she would have
made known: but her Speech was so foolish, mixt with such
Non-sense, that none knew what to make of it; besides, it was so
tedious, that Fortune bid her to be silent; and commanded Rashness
to speak for her, who began after this manner:

Great Fortune; The Duchess of Newcastle has proved her self,
according to report, a very Proud and Ambitious Lady, in presuming
to answer you her own self, in this noble Assembly without your
Command, in a Speech wherein she did not onely contradict you, but
preferred Honesty and Prudence before you; saying, That her Lord
was ready to serve you honestly and prudently; which presumption is
beyond all pardon; and if you allow Honesty and Prudence to be
above you, none will admire, worship, or serve you; but you'l be
forced to serve your self, and will be despised, neglected and
scorned by all; and from a Deity, become a miserable, dirty,
begging mortal in a&#160;Church-yard-Porch, or Noble-man's Gate:
Wherefore to prevent such disasters, fling as many misfortunes and
neglects on the Duke and Duchess of Newcastle, and their two
friends, as your power is able to do; otherwise Prudence and
Honesty will be the chief and onely Moral Deities of Mortals.

Rashness having thus ended her Speech, Prudence rose and
declared her self in this manner:

Beautiful Truth, Great Fortune, and you the rest of my noble
Friends; I am come a great and long journey in the behalf of my
dear Friend the Duke of Newcastle; not to make more wounds, but, if
it be possible, to heal those that are made already. Neither do I
presume to be a Deity; but my onely request is, that you would be
pleased to accept of my Offering, I being an humble and devout
supplicant; and since no offering is more acceptable to the Gods,
then the offering of Peace; in order to that, I desire to make an
agreement between Fortune, and the Duke of Newcastle.

Thus she spake, and as she was going up, up started Honesty (for
she has not always so much discretion as she ought to have) and
interrupted Prudence.

I came not here, said she, to hear Fortune flattered, but to
hear the Cause decided between Fortune and the Duke; neither came I
hither to speak Rhetorically and Eloquently, but to propound the
case plainly and truly; and I'le have you know, that the Duke,
whose Cause we argue, was and is my Foster-son; for I Honesty bred
him from his&#160;Childhood, and made a perpetual friendship
betwixt him and Gratitude, Charity and Generosity; and put him to
School to Prudence, who taught him Wisdom, and informed him in the
Rules of Temperance, Patience, Justice, and the like; then I put
him into the University of Honour, where he learned all Honourable
Qualities, Arts, and Sciences; afterward I sent him to travel
through the World of Actions, and made Observation his Governor;
and in those his travels, he contracted a friendship with
Experience; all which, made him fit for Heavens Blessings, and
Fortunes Favours: But she hating all those that have merit and
desert, became his inveterate Enemy, doing him all the mischief she
could, until the God of Justice opposed Fortune's Malice, and
pull'd him out of those ruines she had cast upon him: For this
God's Favourites were the Dukes Champions; wherefore to be an Enemy
to him, were to be an Enemy to the God of Justice: In short, the
true cause of Fortunes Malice to this Duke is, that he would never
flatter her; for I Honesty, did command him not to do it, or else
he would be forced to follow all her inconstant ways, and obey all
her unjust commands, which would cause a great reproach to him:
but, on the other side, Prudence advised him not to despise
Fortune's favours, for that would be an obstrustion and hinderance
to his worth and merit; and He to obey both our advice and
counsels, did neither flatter nor despise Her; but was always
humble and respectful to her so far as Honour, Honesty and
Conscience would permit: all which I refer to Truth's Judgment, and
expect her final Sentence.

Fortune hearing thus Honesty's plain Speech, thought it very
rude, and would not hearken to Truth's Judgment, but went away in a
Passion: At which, both the Empress and Duchess were extreamly
troubled, that their endeavours should have no better effect: but
Honesty chid the Duchess, and said, she was to be punished for
desiring so much Fortune's favours; for it appears, said she, that
you mistrust the gods blessings: At which the Duchess wept,
answering Honesty, That she did neither mistrust the gods
blessings, nor relye upon Fortune's favours; but desired onely that
her Lord might have no potent Enemies. The Empress being much
troubled to see her weep, told Honesty in anger, she wanted the
discretion of Prudence; for though you are commended, said she, yet
you are apt to commit many indiscreet actions, unless Prudence be
your guide. At which reproof Prudence smiled, and Honesty was
somewhat out of countenance; but they soon became very good
friends: and after the Duchess's Soul had stayed some time with the
Empress in the Blazing-World, she begg'd leave of her to return to
her Lord and Husband; which the Empress granted her, upon condition
she should come and visit her as often as conveniently she could,
promising that she would do the same to the Duchess.

Thus the Duchess's soul, after she had taken her leave of the
Empress, as also of the Spirits, who with great civility, promised
her, that they would endeavour&#160;in time to make a Peace and
Agreement between Fortune and the Duke, returned with Prudence and
Honesty, into her own World: But when she was just upon her
departure, the Empress sent to Her, and desired that she might yet
have some little conference with her before she went; which the
Duchess most willingly granted her Majesty; and when she came to
wait on her, the Empress told the Duchess, That she being her dear
Platonick Friend, of whose just and Impartial Judgment, she had
alwayes a very great esteem; could not forbear, before she went
from her, to ask her Advice concerning the Government of the
Blazing-world: For, said she, although this World was very well and
wisely ordered and governed at first, when I came to be Empress
thereof; yet the nature of Women being much delighted with Change
and Variety, after I had received an absolute Power from the
Emperor, did somewhat alter the Form of Government from what I
found it; but now perceiving that the World is not so quiet as it
was at first, I am much troubled at it; especially there are such
continual Contentions and Divisions between the Worm- Bear- and
Fly-men, the Ape-men, the Satyrs, the Spider-men, and all others of
such sorts, that I fear they'l break out into an open Rebellion,
and cause a great disorder; and the ruin of the Government; and
therefore I desire your advice and assistance, how I may order it
to the best advantage, that this World may be&#160;rendred
peaceable, quiet and happy, as it was before. Whereupon the Duchess
answered, That since she heard by her Imperial Majesty, how well
and happily the World had been governed when she first came to be
Empress thereof, she would advise her Majesty to introduce the same
form of Government again, which had been before; that is, to have
but one soveraign, one Religion, one Law, and one Language, so that
all the World might be but as one united Family, without divisions;
nay, like God, and his Blessed Saints and Angels: Otherwise, said
she, it may in time prove as unhappy, nay, as miserable a World as
that is from which I came, wherein are more soveraigns then Worlds,
and more pretended Governours then Government, more Religions then
Gods, and more Opinions in those Religions then Truths; more Laws
then Rights, and more Bribes then Justices; more Policies then
Necessities, and more Fears then Dangers; more Covetousness then
Riches, more Ambitions then Merits, more Services then Rewards,
more Languages then Wit, more Controversie then Knowledg, more
Reports then noble Actions, and more Gifts by partiality, then
according to Merit; all which, said she, is a great misery, nay, a
curse, which your blessed Blazing-World never knew, nor 'tis
probable, will never know of, unless your Imperial Majesty alter
the Government thereof from what it was when you began to govern
it: And since your Majesty complains much of&#160;the factions of
the Bear- Fish- Fly- Ape- and Worm- men, the Satyrs, Spider-men,
and the like, and of their perpetual disputes and quarrels, I would
advise your Majesty to dissolve all their societies; for 'tis
better to be without their intelligences, then to have an unquiet
and disorderly Government. The truth is, said she, wheresoever
Learning is, there is most commonly also Controversie and
quarelling; for there be always some that will know more, and be
wiser then others: some think their Arguments come nearer to Truth,
and are more rational then others; some are so wedded to their own
opinions, that they'l never yield to Reason; and others, though
they find their Opinions not firmly grounded upon Reason, yet, for
fear of receiving some disgrace by altering them, will nevertheless
maintain them against all sense and reason, which must needs breed
factions in their Schools, which at last break out into open Wars,
and draw sometimes an utter ruin upon a State or Government. The
Empress told the Duchess, that she would willingly follow her
advice; but she thought it would be an eternal disgrace to her, to
alter her own Decrees, Acts, and Laws. To which the Duchess
answered, That it was so far from a disgrace, as it would rather be
for her Majesties eternal honour, to return from a worse to a
better, and would express and declare Her to be more then ordinary
wise and good; so wise, as to perceive her own errors, and so good,
as not to persist in them, which few did: for&#160;which, said she,
you will get a glorious fame in this World, and an Eternal Glory
hereafter; and I shall pray for it so long as I live. Upon which
Advice, the Empress's Soul embrac'd and kiss'd the Duchess's Soul
with an Immaterial Kiss, and shed Immaterial Tears, that she was
forced to part from her, finding her not a flattering Parasite, but
a true Friend; and in truth, such was their Platonick Friendship,
as these two loving Souls did often meet and rejoice in each others
Conversation.



