


The Epilogue to the Reader.


By this Poetical Description, you may perceive, that my ambition
is not onely to be Empress, but Authoress of a whole World; and
that the Worlds I have made, both the Blazing- and the other
Philosophical World, mentioned in the first part of this
Description, are framed and composed of the most pure, that is, the
Rational parts of Matter, which are the parts of my Mind; which
Creation was more easily and suddenly effected, than the Conquests
of the two famous Monarchs of the World. Alexander and Cesar.
Neither have I made such disturbances, and caused so many
dissolutions of particulars, otherwise named deaths, as they did;
for I have destroyed but some few men in a little Boat, which dyed
through the extremity of cold, and that by the hand of Justice,
which was necessitated to punish their crime of stealing away a
young and beauteous Lady. And in the formation of those Worlds, I
take more delight and glory, then ever Alexander or Cesar did in
conquering this terrestrial world; and though I have made my
Blazing-world a Peaceable World, allowing it but one&#160;Religion,
one Language, and one Government; yet could I make another World,
as full of Factions, Divisions and Warrs, as this is of Peace and
Tranquility; and the Rational figures of my Mind might express as
much courage to fight, as Hector and Achilles had; and be as wise
as Nestor, as; Eloquent as Ulysses, and be as beautiful as Hellen.
But I esteeming Peace before Warr, Wit before Policy, Honesty
before Beauty; instead of the figures of Alexander, Cesar, Hector,
Achilles, Nestor, Ulysses, Hellen, &amp;c. chose rather the figure
of Honest Margaret Newcastle, which now I would not change for all
this Terrestrial World; and if any should like the World I have
made, and be willing to be my Subjects, they may imagine themselves
such, and they are such, I mean in their Minds, Fancies or
Imaginations; but if they cannot endure to be Subjects, they may
create Worlds of their own, and Govern themselves as they please.
But yet let them have a care, not to prove unjust Usurpers, and to
rob me of mine: for, concerning the Philosophical-world, I am
Empress of it my self; and as for the Blazing-world, it having an
Empress already, who rules it with great Wisdom and Conduct, which
Empress is my dear Platonick Friend; I shall never prove so unjust,
treacherous and unworthy to her, as to disturb her Government, much
less to depose her from her Imperial Throne, for the sake of any
other, but rather chuse to create another World for another
Friend.




