The Empress having received an information of what concerned
both Church and State, passed some time in viewing the Imperial
Palace, where she admired much the skil and ingenuity of the
Architects, and enquired of them, first, Why they built their
Houses no higher then two stories from the Ground? They answered
her Majesty, That the lower their Buildings were, the less were
they subject either to the heat of the Sun, or Wind, Tempest,
Decay, &amp;c. Then she desired to know the reason, why they made
them so thick? They answered, That, the thicker the Walls were, the
warmer they were in Winter, the cooler in Summer; for their
thickness kept out both the Cold and Heat. Lastly, she asked, Why
they Arched their Roofs, and made so many Pillars? They replied,
That Arches and Pillars, did not onely grace a Building very much,
and caused it to appear Magnificent, but made it also firm and
lasting.

The Empress was very well satisfied with their answers; and
after some time, when she thought that her new founded societies of
the Vertuoso's had made a good progress in the several Employments
she had put them upon, she caused a Convocation first of the
Bird-men, and commanded them to give her a true relation of the two
Cœlestial Bodies, viz. the Sun and Moon, which they did with all
the obedience and faithfulness befitting their duty.

The Sun, as much as they could observe, they related to be a
firm or solid Stone, of a vast bigness; of colour yellowish, and of
an extraordinary splendor: But the Moon, they said, was of a
whitish colour; and although she looked dim in the presence of the
Sun, yet had she her own light, and was a shining body of her self,
as might be perceived by her vigorous appearance in
Moon-shiny-nights; the difference onely betwixt her own and the
Sun's light was, that the Sun did strike his beams in a direct
line; but the Moon never respected the Centre of their World in a
right line, but her Centre was always excentrical. The Spots both
in the Sun and Moon, as far as they were able to perceive, they
affirmed to be nothing else but flaws and stains of their stony
Bodies. Concerning the heat of the Sun, they were not of one
opinion; some would have the Sun hot in it self, alledging an old
Tradition, that it should at some time break asunder, and burn the
Heavens, and consume this world into&#160;hot Embers, which, said
they, could not be done, if the Sun were not fiery of it self.
Others again said, This opinion could not stand with reason; for
Fire being a destroyer of all things, the Sun-stone after this
manner would burn up all the near adjoining Bodies: Besides, said
they, Fire cannot subsist without fuel; and the Sunstone having
nothing to feed on, would in a short time consume it self;
wherefore they thought it more probable that the Sun was not
actually hot, but onely by the reflection of its light; so that its
heat was an effect of its light, both being immaterial. But this
opinion again was laught at by others, and rejected as ridiculous,
who thought it impossible that one immaterial should produce
another; and believed that both the light and heat of the Sun
proceeded from a swift Circular motion of the Æthereal Globules,
which by their striking upon the Optick nerve, caused light, and
their motion produced heat: But neither would this opinion hold;
for, said some, then it would follow, that the sight of Animals is
the cause of light; and that, were there no eyes, there would be no
light; which was against all sense and reason. Thus they argued
concerning the heat and light of the Sun; but, which is remarkable,
none did say, that the Sun was a Globous fluid body, and had a
swift Circular motion; but all agreed, It was fixt and firm like a
Center, and therefore they generally called it the Sun-stone.

Then the Empress asked them the reason, Why the Sun and Moon did
often appear in different postures or shapes, as sometimes
magnified, sometimes diminished; sometimes elevated, otherwhiles
depressed; now thrown to the right, and then to the left? To which
some of the Bird-men answered, That it proceeded from the various
degrees of heat and cold, which are found in the Air, from whence
did follow a differing density and rarity; and likewise from the
vapours that are interposed, whereof those that ascend are higher
and less dense then the ambient air, but those which descend are
heavier and more dense. But others did with more probability
affirm, that it was nothing else but the various patterns of the
Air; for like as Painters do not copy out one and the same original
just alike at all times; so, said they, do several parts of the Air
make different patterns of the luminous Bodies of the Sun and Moon:
which patterns, as several copies, the sensitive motions do figure
out in the substance of our eyes.

This answer the Empress liked much better then the former, and
enquired further, What opinion they had of those Creatures that are
called the motes of the Sun? To which they answered, That they were
nothing else but streams of very small, rare and transparent
particles, through which the Sun was represented as through a
glass: for if they were not transparent, said they, they would
eclipse the light of the Sun; and if not rare and of an airy
substance, they would hinder&#160;Flies from flying in the Air, at
least retard their flying motion: Nevertheless, although they were
thinner then the thinnest vapour, yet were they not so thin as the
body of air, or else they would not be perceptible by animal sight.
Then the Empress asked, Whether they were living Creatures? They
answered, Yes: Because they did encrease and decrease, and were
nourished by the presence, and starved by the absence of the
Sun.

Having thus finished their discourse of the Sun and Moon, the
Empress desired to know what Stars there were besides? But they
answer'd, that they could perceive in that World none other but
Blazing Stars, and from thence it had the name that it was called
the Blazing-World; and these Blazing-Stars, said they, were such
solid, firm and shining bodies as the Sun and Moon, not of a
Globular, but of several sorts of figures: some had tails; and
some, other kinds of shapes.

After this, The Empress asked them, What kind of substance or
creature the Air was? The Bird-men answered, That they could have
no other perception of the Air, but by their own Respiration: For,
said they, some bodies are onely subject to touch, others onely to
sight, and others onely to smell; but some are subject to none of
our exterior Senses: For Nature is so full of variety, that our
weak Senses cannot perceive all the various sorts of her Creatures;
neither is there any one&#160;object perceptible by all our Senses,
no more then several objects are by one sense. I believe you,
replied the Empress; but if you can give no account of the Air,
said she, you will hardly be able to inform me how Wind is made;
for they say, that Wind is nothing but motion of the Air. The
Bird-men answer'd, That they observed Wind to be more dense then
Air, and therefore subject to the sense of Touch; but what properly
Wind was, and the manner how it was made, they could not exactly
tell; some said, it was caused by the Clouds falling on each other;
and others, that it was produced of a hot and dry exhalation: which
ascending, was driven down again by the coldness of the Air that is
in the middle Region, and by reason of its leightness, could not go
directly to the bottom, but was carried by the Air up and down:
Some would have it a flowing Water of the Air; and others again, a
flowing Air moved by the blaz of the Stars.

But the Empress, seeing they could not agree concerning the
cause of Wind, asked, Whether they could tell how Snow was made? To
which they answered That according to their observation, Snow was
made by a commixture of Water, and some certain extract of the
Element of Fire that is under the Moon; a small portion of which
extract, being mixed with Water, and beaten by Air or Wind, made a
white Froth called Snow; which being after some while dissolved by
the heat of the same spirit, turned to Water again.
This&#160;observation amazed the Empress very much; for she had
hitherto believed, That Snow was made by cold motions, and not by
such an agitation or beating of a fiery extract upon water: Nor
could she be perswaded to believe it until the Fish- or Mear-men
had delivered their observation upon the making of Ice, which, they
said, was not produced, as some hitherto conceived, by the motion
of the Air, raking the Superficies of the Earth, but by some strong
saline vapour arising out of the Seas, which condensed Water into
Ice; and the more quantity there was of that vapour, the greater
were the Mountains of Precipices of Ice; but the reason that it did
not so much freeze in the Torrid Zone, or under the Ecliptick, as
near or under the Poles, was, that this vapour in those places
being drawn up by the Sun-beams into the middle Region of the Air,
was onely condensed into Water, and fell down in showres of Rain;
when as, under the Poles, the heat of the Sun being not so
vehement, the same vapour had no force or power to rise so high,
and therefore caused so much Ice, by ascending and acting onely
upon the surface of water.

This Relation confirmed partly the observation of the Bird-men
concerning the cause of Snow; but since they had made mention that
that same extract, which by its commixture with Water made Snow,
proceeded from the Element of Fire, that is under the Moon: The
Emperess asked them, of what nature that Elementary&#160;Fire was;
whether it was like ordinary Fire here upon Earth, or such a Fire
as is within the bowels of the Earth, and as the famous Mountains
Vesuvius and Ætna do burn withal; or whether it was such a sort of
fire, as is found in flints, &amp;c. They answered, That the
Elementary Fire, which is underneath the Sun, was not so solid as
any of those mentioned fires; because it had no solid fuel to feed
on; but yet it was much like the flame of ordinary fire, onely
somewhat more thin and fluid; for Flame, said they, is nothing else
but the airy part of a fired Body.

Lastly, the Empress asked the Bird-men of the nature of Thunder
and Lightning? and whether it was not caused by roves of Ice
falling upon each other? To which they answered, That it was not
made that way, but by an encounter of cold and heat; so that an
exhalation being kindled in the Clouds, did dash forth Lightning,
and that there were so many rentings of Clouds as there were Sounds
and Cracking noises: But this opinion was contradicted by others,
who affirmed that Thunder was a sudden and monstrous Blaz, stirred
up in the Air, and did not always require a Cloud; but the Empress
not knowing what they meant by Blaz (for even they themselves were
not able to explain the sense of this word) liked the former
better; and, to avoid hereafter tedious disputes, and have the
truth of the Phænomena's of Cœlestial Bodies more exactly known,
commanded the Bear-men,&#160;which were her Experimental
Philosophers, to observe them through such Instruments as are
called Telescopes, which they did according to her Majesties
Command; but these Telescopes caused more differences and divisions
amongst them, then ever they had before; for some said, they
perceived that the Sun stood still, and the Earth did move about
it; others were of opinion, that they both did move; and others
said again, that the Earth stood still, and Sun did move; some
counted more Stars then others; some discovered new Stars never
seen before; some fell into a great dispute with others concerning
the bigness of the Stars; some said, The Moon was another World
like their Terrestrial Globe, and the spots therein were Hills and
Vallies; but others would have the spots to be the Terrestrial
parts, and the smooth and glossie parts, the Sea: At last, the
Empress commanded them to go with their Telescopes to the very end
of the Pole that was joined to the World she came from, and try
whether they could perceive any Stars in it: which they did; and,
being returned to her Majesty, reported that they had seen three
Blazing-Stars appear there, one after another in a short time,
whereof two were bright, and one dim; but they could not agree
neither in this observation: for some said, It was but one Star
which appeared at three several times, in several places; and
others would have them to be three several Stars; for they thought
it impossible, that those three several appearances
should&#160;have been but one Star, because every Star did rise at
a certain time, and appear'd in a certain place, and did disappear
in the same place: Next, It is altogether improbable, said they,
That one Star should fly from place to place, especially at such a
vast distance, without a visible motion; in so short a time, and
appear in such different places, whereof two were quite opposite,
and the third side-ways: Lastly, If it had been but one Star, said
they, it would always have kept the same splendor, which it did
not; for, as above mentioned, two were bright, and one was dim.
After they had thus argued, the Empress began to grow angry at
their Telescopes, that they could give no better Intelligence; for,
said she, now I do plainly perceive, that your Glasses are false
Informers, and instead of discovering the Truth, delude your
Senses; Wherefore I Command you to break them, and let the Bird-men
trust onely to their natural eyes, and examine Cœlestial Objects by
the motions of their own Sense and Reason. The Bear-men replied,
That it was not the fault of their Glasses, which caused such
differences in their Opinions, but the sensitive motions in their
Optick organs did not move alike, nor were their rational judgments
always regular: To which the Empress answered, That if their
Glasses were true Informers, they would rectifie their irregular
Sense and Reason; But, said she, Nature has made your Sense and
Reason more regular then Art has your Glasses; for they are meer
deluders,&#160;and will never lead you to the knowledg of Truth;
Wherefore I command you again to break them; for you may observe
the progressive motions of Cœlestial Bodies with your natural eyes
better then through Artificial Glasses. The Bear-men being
exceedingly troubled at her Majesties displeasure concerning their
Telescopes, kneel'd down, and in the humblest manner petitioned,
that they might not be broken; for, said they, we take more delight
in Artificial delusions, then in Natural truths. Besides, we shall
want Imployments for our Senses, and Subjects for Arguments; for,
were there nothing but truth, and no falshood, there would be no
occasion to dispute, and by this means we should want the aim and
pleasure of our endeavors in confuting and contradicting each
other; neither would one man be thought wiser then another, but all
would either be alike knowing and wise, or all would be fools;
wherefore we most humbly beseech your Imperial Majesty to spare our
Glasses, which are our onely delight, and as dear to us as our
lives. The Empress at last consented to their request, but upon
condition, that their disputes and quarrels should remain within
their Schools, and cause no factions or disturbances in State, or
Government. The Bear-men, full of joy, returned their most humble
thanks to the Empress; and to make her amends for the displeasure
which their Telescopes had occasioned, told her Majesty, that they
had several other artificial Optick-Glasses, which they&#160;were
sure would give her Majesty a great deal more satisfaction. Amongst
the rest, they brought forth several Microscopes, by the means of
which they could enlarge the shapes of little bodies, and make a
Lowse appear as big as an Elephant, and a Mite as big as a Whale.
First of all they shewed the Empress a gray Drone-flye, wherein
they observed that the greatest part of her face, nay, of her head,
consisted of two large bunches all cover'd over with a multitude of
small Pearls or Hemispheres in a Trigonal order: Which Pearls were
of two degrees, smaller and bigger; the smaller degree was
lowermost, and looked towards the ground; the other was upward, and
looked sideward, forward and backward: They were all so smooth and
polished, that they were able to represent the image of any object,
the number of them was in all 14000. After the view of this strange
and miraculous Creature, and their several observations upon it,
the Empress asked them, What they judged those little Hemispheres
might be? They answered, That each of them was a perfect Eye, by
reason they perceived that each was covered with a Transparent
Cornea, containing a liquor within them, which resembled the watery
or glassie humor of the Eye. To which the Emperess replied, That
they might be glassie Pearls, and yet not Eyes; and that perhaps
their Microscopes did not truly inform them. But they smilingly
answered her Majesty, That she did not know the vertue
of&#160;those Microscopes: for they never delude, but rectifie and
inform the Senses; nay, the World, said they, would be but blind
without them, as it has been in former ages before those
Microscopes were invented.

After this, they took a Charcoal, and viewing it with one of
their best Microscopes, discovered in it an infinite multitude of
pores, some bigger, some less; so close and thick, that they left
but very little space betwixt them to be filled with a solid body;
and to give her Imperial Majesty a better assurance thereof, they
counted in a line of them an inch long, no less then 2700 pores;
from which Observation they drew this following Conclusion, to wit,
That this multitude of pores was the cause of the blackness of the
Coal; for, said they, a body that has so many pores, from each of
which no light is reflected, must necessarily look black, since
black is nothing else but a privation of light, or a want of
reflection. But the Empress replied, That if all Colours were made
by reflection of light, and that Black was as much a colour as any
other colour; then certainly they contradicted themselves in saying
that black was made by want of reflection. However, not to
interrupt your Microscopical Inspections, said she, let us see how
Vegetables appear through your Glasses; whereupon they took a
Nettle, and by the vertue of the Microscope, discovered that
underneath the points of the Nettle there were certain little bags
or&#160;bladders, containing a poysonous liquor, and when the
points had made way into the interior parts of the skin, they like
Syringe-pipes served to conveigh that same liquor into them. To
which Observation the Empress replied, That if there were such
poyson in Nettles, then certainly in eating of them, they would
hurt us inwardly, as much as they do outwardly? But they answered,
That it belonged to Physicians more then to Experimental
Philosophers, to give Reasons hereof; for they only made
Microscopical inspections, and related the Figures of the Natural
parts of Creatures acording to the representation of their
glasses.
