


Chapter

17

&#160;


But there was no hilarity in the little town that same tranquil
Saturday afternoon. The Harpers, and Aunt Polly's family, were
being put into mourning, with great grief and many tears. An
unusual quiet possessed the village, although it was ordinarily
quiet enough, in all conscience. The villagers conducted their
concerns with an absent air, and talked little; but they sighed
often. The Saturday holiday seemed a burden to the children. They
had no heart in their sports, and gradually gave them up.

In the afternoon Becky Thatcher found herself moping about the
deserted schoolhouse yard, and feeling very melancholy. But she
found nothing there to comfort her. She soliloquized:

"Oh, if I only had a brass andiron-knob again! But I haven't got
anything now to remember him by." And she choked back a little
sob.

Presently she stopped, and said to herself:

"It was right here. Oh, if it was to do over again, I wouldn't
say that — I wouldn't say it for the whole world. But he's gone
now; I'll never, never, never see him any more."

This thought broke her down, and she wandered away, with tears
rolling down her cheeks. Then quite a group of boys and girls —
playmates of Tom's and Joe's — came by, and stood looking over the
paling fence and talking in reverent tones of how Tom did so-and-so
the last time they saw him, and how Joe said this and that small
trifle (pregnant with awful prophecy, as they could easily see
now!) — and each speaker pointed out the exact spot where the lost
lads stood at the time, and then added something like "and I was
a-standing just so — just as I am now, and as if you was him — I
was as close as that — and he smiled, just this way — and then
something seemed to go all over me, like — awful, you know — and I
never thought what it meant, of course, but I can see now!"

