Let us return to the "Examination." The first composition that
was read was one entitled "Is this, then, Life?" Perhaps the reader
can endure an extract from it:

"In the common walks of life, with what delightful emotions does
the youthful mind look forward to some anticipated scene of
festivity! Imagination is busy sketching rose-tinted pictures of
joy. In fancy, the voluptuous votary of fashion sees herself amid
the festive throng, 'the observed of all observers.' Her graceful
form, arrayed in snowy robes, is whirling through the mazes of the
joyous dance; her eye is brightest, her step is lightest in the gay
assembly. "In such delicious fancies time quickly glides by, and
the welcome hour arrives for her entrance into the Elysian world,
of which she has had such bright dreams. How fairy-like does
everything appear to her enchanted vision! Each new scene is more
charming than the last. But after a while she finds that beneath
this goodly exterior, all is vanity, the flattery which once
charmed her soul, now grates harshly upon her ear; the ball-room
has lost its charms; and with wasted health and imbittered heart,
she turns away with the conviction that earthly pleasures cannot
satisfy the longings of the soul!"

And so forth and so on. There was a buzz of gratification from
time to time during the reading, accompanied by whispered
ejaculations of "How sweet!" "How eloquent!" "So true!" etc., and
after the thing had closed with a peculiarly afflicting sermon the
applause was enthusiastic. Then arose a slim, melancholy girl,
whose face had the "interesting" paleness that comes of pills and
indigestion, and read a "poem." Two stanzas of it will do:

"A Missouri Maiden's Farewell to Alabama

"Alabama, good-bye! I love thee well!

But yet for a while do I leave thee now!

Sad, yes, sad thoughts of thee my heart doth swell,

And burning recollections throng my brow!

For I have wandered through thy flowery woods;

Have roamed and read near Tallapoosa's stream;

Have listened to Tallassee's warring floods,
