"We'll make quick work of this. There's an old rusty pick over
amongst the weeds in the corner the other side of the fireplace — I
saw it a minute ago."

He ran and brought the boys' pick and shovel. Injun Joe took the
pick, looked it over critically, shook his head, muttered something
to himself, and then began to use it. The box was soon unearthed.
It was not very large; it was iron bound and had been very strong
before the slow years had injured it. The men contemplated the
treasure awhile in blissful silence.

"Pard, there's thousands of dollars here," said Injun Joe.

"'Twas always said that Murrel's gang used to be around here one
summer," the stranger observed.

"I know it," said Injun Joe; "and this looks like it, I should
say."

"Now you won't need to do that job."

The half-breed frowned. Said he:

"You don't know me. Least you don't know all about that thing.
'Tain't robbery altogether — it's revenge!" and a wicked light
flamed in his eyes. "I'll need your help in it. When it's finished
— then Texas. Go home to your Nance and your kids, and stand by
till you hear from me."

"Well — if you say so; what'll we do with this — bury it
again?"

"Yes. [Ravishing delight overhead.] No! by the great Sachem, no!
[Profound distress overhead.] I'd nearly forgot. That pick had
fresh earth on it! [The boys were sick with terror in a moment.]
What business has a pick and a shovel here? What business with
fresh earth on them? Who brought them here — and where are they
gone? Have you heard anybody? — seen anybody? What! bury it again
and leave them to come and see the ground disturbed? Not exactly —
not exactly. We'll take it to my den."

"Why, of course! Might have thought of that before. You mean
Number One?"
