


Chapter

29

&#160;


The first thing Tom heard on Friday morning was a glad piece of
news — Judge Thatcher's family had come back to town the night
before. Both Injun Joe and the treasure sunk into secondary
importance for a moment, and Becky took the chief place in the
boy's interest. He saw her and they had an exhausting good time
playing "hi-spy" and "gully-keeper" with a crowd of their
schoolmates. The day was completed and crowned in a peculiarly
satisfactory way: Becky teased her mother to appoint the next day
for the long-promised and long-delayed picnic, and she consented.
The child's delight was boundless; and Tom's not more moderate. The
invitations were sent out before sunset, and straightway the young
folks of the village were thrown into a fever of preparation and
pleasurable anticipation. Tom's excitement enabled him to keep
awake until a pretty late hour, and he had good hopes of hearing
Huck's "maow," and of having his treasure to astonish Becky and the
picnickers with, next day; but he was disappointed. No signal came
that night. Morning came, eventually, and by ten or eleven o'clock
a giddy and rollicking company were gathered at Judge Thatcher's,
and everything was ready for a start. It was not the custom for
elderly people to mar the picnics with their presence. The children
were considered safe enough under the wings of a few young ladies
of eighteen and a few young gentlemen of twenty-three or
thereabouts. The old steam ferryboat was chartered for the
occasion; presently the gay throng filed up the main street laden
with provision-baskets. Sid was sick and had to miss the fun; Mary
remained at home to entertain him. The last thing Mrs. Thatcher
said to Becky, was:

"You'll not get back till late. Perhaps you'd better stay all
night with some of the girls that live near the ferry-landing,
child."

"Then I'll stay with Susy Harper, mamma."

"Very well. And mind and behave yourself and don't be any
trouble."

Presently, as they tripped along, Tom said to Becky:

"Say — I'll tell you what we'll do. 'Stead of going to Joe
Harper's we'll climb right up the hill and stop at the Widow
Douglas'. She'll have ice-cream! She has it most every day — dead
loads of it. And she'll be awful glad to have us."

