
Mrs. Thatcher shook her head feebly and turned paler than
ever.

"He didn't stay with us," said Mrs. Harper, beginning to look
uneasy. A marked anxiety came into Aunt Polly's face.

"Joe Harper, have you seen my Tom this morning?"

"No'm."

"When did you see him last?"

Joe tried to remember, but was not sure he could say. The people
had stopped moving out of church. Whispers passed along, and a
boding uneasiness took possession of every countenance. Children
were anxiously questioned, and young teachers. They all said they
had not noticed whether Tom and Becky were on board the ferryboat
on the homeward trip; it was dark; no one thought of inquiring if
any one was missing. One young man finally blurted out his fear
that they were still in the cave! Mrs. Thatcher swooned away. Aunt
Polly fell to crying and wringing her hands.

The alarm swept from lip to lip, from group to group, from
street to street, and within five minutes the bells were wildly
clanging and the whole town was up! The Cardiff Hill episode sank
into instant insignificance, the burglars were forgotten, horses
were saddled, skiffs were manned, the ferryboat ordered out, and
before the horror was half an hour old, two hundred men were
pouring down highroad and river toward the cave.

All the long afternoon the village seemed empty and dead. Many
women visited Aunt Polly and Mrs. Thatcher and tried to comfort
them. They cried with them, too, and that was still better than
words. All the tedious night the town waited for news; but when the
morning dawned at last, all the word that came was, "Send more
candles â€” and send food." Mrs. Thatcher was almost crazed; and Aunt
Polly, also. Judge Thatcher sent messages of hope and encouragement
from the cave, but they conveyed no real cheer.

The old Welshman came home toward daylight, spattered with
candle-grease, smeared with clay, and almost worn out. He found
Huck still in the bed that had been provided for him, and delirious
with fever. The physicians were all at the cave, so the Widow
Douglas came and took charge of the patient. She said she would do
her best by him, because, whether he was good, bad, or indifferent,
he was the Lord's, and nothing that was the Lord's was a thing to
be neglected. The Welshman said Huck had good spots in him, and the
widow said:

"You can depend on it. That's the Lord's mark. He don't leave it
off. He never does. Puts it somewhere on every creature that comes
from his hands."

