
"And kill them?"

"No, not always. Hive them in the cave till they raise a
ransom."

"What's a ransom?"

"Money. You make them raise all they can, off'n their friends;
and after you've kept them a year, if it ain't raised then you kill
them. That's the general way. Only you don't kill the women. You
shut up the women, but you don't kill them. They're always
beautiful and rich, and awfully scared. You take their watches and
things, but you always take your hat off and talk polite. They
ain't anybody as polite as robbers â€” you'll see that in any book.
Well, the women get to loving you, and after they've been in the
cave a week or two weeks they stop crying and after that you
couldn't get them to leave. If you drove them out they'd turn right
around and come back. It's so in all the books."

"Why, it's real bully, Tom. I believe it's better'n to be a
pirate."

"Yes, it's better in some ways, because it's close to home and
circuses and all that."

By this time everything was ready and the boys entered the hole,
Tom in the lead. They toiled their way to the farther end of the
tunnel, then made their spliced kite-strings fast and moved on. A
few steps brought them to the spring, and Tom felt a shudder quiver
all through him. He showed Huck the fragment of candle-wick perched
on a lump of clay against the wall, and described how he and Becky
had watched the flame struggle and expire.

The boys began to quiet down to whispers, now, for the stillness
and gloom of the place oppressed their spirits. They went on, and
presently entered and followed Tom's other corridor until they
reached the "jumping-off place." The candles revealed the fact that
it was not really a precipice, but only a steep clay hill twenty or
thirty feet high. Tom whispered:

"Now I'll show you something, Huck."

He held his candle aloft and said:

