
After breakfast his aunt took him aside, and Tom almost
brightened in the hope that he was going to be flogged; but it was
not so. His aunt wept over him and asked him how he could go and
break her old heart so; and finally told him to go on, and ruin
himself and bring her gray hairs with sorrow to the grave, for it
was no use for her to try any more. This was worse than a thousand
whippings, and Tom's heart was sorer now than his body. He cried,
he pleaded for forgiveness, promised to reform over and over again,
and then received his dismissal, feeling that he had won but an
imperfect forgiveness and established but a feeble confidence.

He left the presence too miserable to even feel revengeful
toward Sid; and so the latter's prompt retreat through the back
gate was unnecessary. He moped to school gloomy and sad, and took
his flogging, along with Joe Harper, for playing hookey the day
before, with the air of one whose heart was busy with heavier woes
and wholly dead to trifles. Then he betook himself to his seat,
rested his elbows on his desk and his jaws in his hands, and stared
at the wall with the stony stare of suffering that has reached the
limit and can no further go. His elbow was pressing against some
hard substance. After a long time he slowly and sadly changed his
position, and took up this object with a sigh. It was in a paper.
He unrolled it. A long, lingering, colossal sigh followed, and his
heart broke. It was his brass andiron knob!

This final feather broke the camel's back.




