For some time, now, the boys had been dully conscious of a
peculiar sound in the distance, just as one sometimes is of the
ticking of a clock which he takes no distinct note of. But now this
mysterious sound became more pronounced, and forced a recognition.
The boys started, glanced at each other, and then each assumed a
listening attitude. There was a long silence, profound and
unbroken; then a deep, sullen boom came floating down out of the
distance.

"What is it!" exclaimed Joe, under his breath.

"I wonder," said Tom in a whisper.

"'Tain't thunder," said Huckleberry, in an awed tone, "becuz
thunder —"

"Hark!" said Tom. "Listen — don't talk."

They waited a time that seemed an age, and then the same muffled
boom troubled the solemn hush.

"Let's go and see."

They sprang to their feet and hurried to the shore toward the
town. They parted the bushes on the bank and peered out over the
water. The little steam ferryboat was about a mile below the
village, drifting with the current. Her broad deck seemed crowded
with people. There were a great many skiffs rowing about or
floating with the stream in the neighborhood of the ferryboat, but
the boys could not determine what the men in them were doing.
Presently a great jet of white smoke burst from the ferryboat's
side, and as it expanded and rose in a lazy cloud, that same dull
throb of sound was borne to the listeners again.

"I know now!" exclaimed Tom; "somebody's drownded!"

"That's it!" said Huck; "they done that last summer, when Bill
Turner got drownded; they shoot a cannon over the water, and that
makes him come up to the top. Yes, and they take loaves of bread
and put quicksilver in 'em and set 'em afloat, and wherever there's
anybody that's drownded, they'll float right there and stop."

"Yes, I've heard about that," said Joe. "I wonder what makes the
bread do that."
