After he had drunk his cup of black coffee, he wiped his lips
slowly with a napkin, motioned to his servant to wait, and going
over to the table, sat down and wrote two letters. One he put in
his pocket, the other he handed to the valet.

"Take this round to 152, Hertford Street, Francis, and if Mr.
Campbell is out of town, get his address."

As soon as he was alone, he lit a cigarette and began sketching
upon a piece of paper, drawing first flowers and bits of
architecture, and then human faces. Suddenly he remarked that every
face that he drew seemed to have a fantastic likeness to Basil
Hallward. He frowned, and getting up, went over to the book-case
and took out a volume at hazard. He was determined that he would
not think about what had happened until it became absolutely
necessary that he should do so.

When he had stretched himself on the sofa, he looked at the
title-page of the book. It was Gautier's Emaux et Camees,
Charpentier's Japanese-paper edition, with the Jacquemart etching.
The binding was of citron-green leather, with a design of gilt
trellis-work and dotted pomegranates. It had been given to him by
Adrian Singleton. As he turned over the pages, his eye fell on the
poem about the hand of Lacenaire, the cold yellow hand "du supplice
encore mal lavee," with its downy red hairs and its "doigts de
faune." He glanced at his own white taper fingers, shuddering
slightly in spite of himself, and passed on, till he came to those
lovely stanzas upon Venice:

Sur une gamme chromatique, Le sein de peries ruisselant, La
Venus de l'Adriatique Sort de l'eau son corps rose et blanc.

Les domes, sur l'azur des ondes Suivant la phrase au pur
contour, S'enflent comme des gorges rondes Que souleve un soupir
d'amour.

L'esquif aborde et me depose, Jetant son amarre au pilier,
Devant une facade rose, Sur le marbre d'un escalier.

How exquisite they were! As one read them, one seemed to be
floating down the green water-ways of the pink and pearl city,
seated in a black gondola with silver prow and trailing curtains.
The mere lines looked to him like those straight lines of
turquoise-blue that follow one as one pushes out to the Lido. The
sudden flashes of colour reminded him of the gleam of the
opal-and-iris-throated birds that flutter round the tall
honeycombed Campanile, or stalk, with such stately grace, through
the dim, dust-stained arcades. Leaning back with half-closed eyes,
he kept saying over and over to himself:

"Devant une facade rose, Sur le marbre d'un escalier."

The whole of Venice was in those two lines. He remembered the
autumn that he had passed there, and a wonderful love that had
stirred him to mad delightful follies. There was romance in every
place. But Venice, like Oxford, had kept the background for
romance, and, to the true romantic, background was everything, or
almost everything. Basil had been with him part of the time, and
had gone wild over Tintoret. Poor Basil! What a horrible way for a
man to die!

He sighed, and took up the volume again, and tried to forget. He
read of the swallows that fly in and out of the little cafe at
Smyrna where the Hadjis sit counting their amber beads and the
turbaned merchants smoke their long tasselled pipes and talk
gravely to each other; he read of the Obelisk in the Place de la
Concorde that weeps tears of granite in its lonely sunless exile
and longs to be back by the hot, lotus-covered Nile, where there
are Sphinxes, and rose-red ibises, and white vultures with gilded
claws, and crocodiles with small beryl eyes that crawl over the
green steaming mud; he began to brood over those verses which,
drawing music from kiss-stained marble, tell of that curious statue
that Gautier compares to a contralto voice, the "monstre charmant"
that couches in the porphyry-room of the Louvre. But after a time
the book fell from his hand. He grew nervous, and a horrible fit of
terror came over him. What if Alan Campbell should be out of
England? Days would elapse before he could come back. Perhaps he
might refuse to come. What could he do then? Every moment was of
vital importance.
