
The lad started and drew back. He was bareheaded, and the leaves
had tossed his rebellious curls and tangled all their gilded
threads. There was a look of fear in his eyes, such as people have
when they are suddenly awakened. His finely chiselled nostrils
quivered, and some hidden nerve shook the scarlet of his lips and
left them trembling.

"Yes," continued Lord Henry, "that is one of the great secrets
of life— to cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by
means of the soul. You are a wonderful creation. You know more than
you think you know, just as you know less than you want to
know."

Dorian Gray frowned and turned his head away. He could not help
liking the tall, graceful young man who was standing by him. His
romantic, olive-coloured face and worn expression interested him.
There was something in his low languid voice that was absolutely
fascinating. His cool, white, flowerlike hands, even, had a curious
charm. They moved, as he spoke, like music, and seemed to have a
language of their own. But he felt afraid of him, and ashamed of
being afraid. Why had it been left for a stranger to reveal him to
himself? He had known Basil Hallward for months, but the friendship
between them had never altered him. Suddenly there had come some
one across his life who seemed to have disclosed to him life's
mystery. And, yet, what was there to be afraid of? He was not a
schoolboy or a girl. It was absurd to be frightened.

"Let us go and sit in the shade," said Lord Henry. "Parker has
brought out the drinks, and if you stay any longer in this glare,
you will be quite spoiled, and Basil will never paint you again.
You really must not allow yourself to become sunburnt. It would be
unbecoming."

"What can it matter?" cried Dorian Gray, laughing, as he sat
down on the seat at the end of the garden.

"It should matter everything to you, Mr. Gray."

"Why?"

"Because you have the most marvellous youth, and youth is the
one thing worth having."

"I don't feel that, Lord Henry."

"No, you don't feel it now. Some day, when you are old and
wrinkled and ugly, when thought has seared your forehead with its
lines, and passion branded your lips with its hideous fires, you
will feel it, you will feel it terribly. Now, wherever you go, you
charm the world. Will it always be so?&#160;… You have a
wonderfully beautiful face, Mr. Gray. Don't frown. You have. And
beauty is a form of genius— is higher, indeed, than genius, as it
needs no explanation. It is of the great facts of the world, like
sunlight, or spring-time, or the reflection in dark waters of that
silver shell we call the moon. It cannot be questioned. It has its
divine right of sovereignty. It makes princes of those who have it.
You smile? Ah! when you have lost it you won't smile… . People say
sometimes that beauty is only superficial. That may be so, but at
least it is not so superficial as thought is. To me, beauty is the
wonder of wonders. It is only shallow people who do not judge by
appearances. The true mystery of the world is the visible, not the
invisible… . Yes, Mr. Gray, the gods have been good to you. But
what the gods give they quickly take away. You have only a few
years in which to live really, perfectly, and fully. When your
youth goes, your beauty will go with it, and then you will suddenly
discover that there are no triumphs left for you, or have to
content yourself with those mean triumphs that the memory of your
past will make more bitter than defeats. Every month as it wanes
brings you nearer to something dreadful. Time is jealous of you,
and wars against your lilies and your roses. You will become
sallow, and hollow-cheeked, and dull-eyed. You will suffer
horribly… . Ah! realize your youth while you have it. Don't
squander the gold of your days, listening to the tedious, trying to
improve the hopeless failure, or giving away your life to the
ignorant, the common, and the vulgar. These are the sickly aims,
the false ideals, of our age. Live! Live the wonderful life that is
in you! Let nothing be lost upon you. Be always searching for new
sensations. Be afraid of nothing… . A new Hedonism— that is what
our century wants. You might be its visible symbol. With your
personality there is nothing you could not do. The world belongs to
you for a season… . The moment I met you I saw that you were quite
unconscious of what you really are, of what you really might be.
There was so much in you that charmed me that I felt I must tell
you something about yourself. I thought how tragic it would be if
you were wasted. For there is such a little time that your youth
will last—such a little time. The common hill-flowers wither, but
they blossom again. The laburnum will be as yellow next June as it
is now. In a month there will be purple stars on the clematis, and
year after year the green night of its leaves will hold its purple
stars. But we never get back our youth. The pulse of joy that beats
in us at twenty becomes sluggish. Our limbs fail, our senses rot.
We degenerate into hideous puppets, haunted by the memory of the
passions of which we were too much afraid, and the exquisite
temptations that we had not the courage to yield to. Youth! Youth!
There is absolutely nothing in the world but youth!"

