
Yes, the lad was premature. He was gathering his harvest while
it was yet spring. The pulse and passion of youth were in him, but
he was becoming self-conscious. It was delightful to watch him.
With his beautiful face, and his beautiful soul, he was a thing to
wonder at. It was no matter how it all ended, or was destined to
end. He was like one of those gracious figures in a pageant or a
play, whose joys seem to be remote from one, but whose sorrows stir
one's sense of beauty, and whose wounds are like red roses.

Soul and body, body and soulâ€”how mysterious they were! There was
animalism in the soul, and the body had its moments of
spirituality. The senses could refine, and the intellect could
degrade. Who could say where the fleshly impulse ceased, or the
psychical impulse began? How shallow were the arbitrary definitions
of ordinary psychologists! And yet how difficult to decide between
the claims of the various schools! Was the soul a shadow seated in
the house of sin? Or was the body really in the soul, as Giordano
Bruno thought? The separation of spirit from matter was a mystery,
and the union of spirit with matter was a mystery also.

He began to wonder whether we could ever make psychology so
absolute a science that each little spring of life would be
revealed to us. As it was, we always misunderstood ourselves and
rarely understood others. Experience was of no ethical value. It
was merely the name men gave to their mistakes. Moralists had, as a
rule, regarded it as a mode of warning, had claimed for it a
certain ethical efficacy in the formation of character, had praised
it as something that taught us what to follow and showed us what to
avoid. But there was no motive power in experience. It was as
little of an active cause as conscience itself. All that it really
demonstrated was that our future would be the same as our past, and
that the sin we had done once, and with loathing, we would do many
times, and with joy.

It was clear to him that the experimental method was the only
method by which one could arrive at any scientific analysis of the
passions; and certainly Dorian Gray was a subject made to his hand,
and seemed to promise rich and fruitful results. His sudden mad
love for Sibyl Vane was a psychological phenomenon of no small
interest. There was no doubt that curiosity had much to do with it,
curiosity and the desire for new experiences, yet it was not a
simple, but rather a very complex passion. What there was in it of
the purely sensuous instinct of boyhood had been transformed by the
workings of the imagination, changed into something that seemed to
the lad himself to be remote from sense, and was for that very
reason all the more dangerous. It was the passions about whose
origin we deceived ourselves that tyrannized most strongly over us.
Our weakest motives were those of whose nature we were conscious.
It often happened that when we thought we were experimenting on
others we were really experimenting on ourselves.

While Lord Henry sat dreaming on these things, a knock came to
the door, and his valet entered and reminded him it was time to
dress for dinner. He got up and looked out into the street. The
sunset had smitten into scarlet gold the upper windows of the
houses opposite. The panes glowed like plates of heated metal. The
sky above was like a faded rose. He thought of his friend's young
fiery-coloured life and wondered how it was all going to end.

When he arrived home, about half-past twelve o'clock, he saw a
telegram lying on the hall table. He opened it and found it was
from Dorian Gray. It was to tell him that he was engaged to be
married to Sibyl Vane.




