Sibyl Vane tossed her head and laughed. "We don't want him any
more, Mother. Prince Charming rules life for us now." Then she
paused. A rose shook in her blood and shadowed her cheeks. Quick
breath parted the petals of her lips. They trembled. Some southern
wind of passion swept over her and stirred the dainty folds of her
dress. "I love him," she said simply.

"Foolish child! foolish child!" was the parrot-phrase flung in
answer. The waving of crooked, false-jewelled fingers gave
grotesqueness to the words.

The girl laughed again. The joy of a caged bird was in her
voice. Her eyes caught the melody and echoed it in radiance, then
closed for a moment, as though to hide their secret. When they
opened, the mist of a dream had passed across them.

Thin-lipped wisdom spoke at her from the worn chair, hinted at
prudence, quoted from that book of cowardice whose author apes the
name of common sense. She did not listen. She was free in her
prison of passion. Her prince, Prince Charming, was with her. She
had called on memory to remake him. She had sent her soul to search
for him, and it had brought him back. His kiss burned again upon
her mouth. Her eyelids were warm with his breath.

Then wisdom altered its method and spoke of espial and
discovery. This young man might be rich. If so, marriage should be
thought of. Against the shell of her ear broke the waves of worldly
cunning. The arrows of craft shot by her. She saw the thin lips
moving, and smiled.

Suddenly she felt the need to speak. The wordy silence troubled
her. "Mother, Mother," she cried, "why does he love me so much? I
know why I love him. I love him because he is like what love
himself should be. But what does he see in me? I am not worthy of
him. And yet—why, I cannot tell—though I feel so much beneath him,
I don't feel humble. I feel proud, terribly proud. Mother, did you
love my father as I love Prince Charming?"

The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed
her cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain. Sybil
rushed to her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her.
"Forgive me, Mother. I know it pains you to talk about our father.
But it only pains you because you loved him so much. Don't look so
sad. I am as happy to-day as you were twenty years ago. Ah! let me
be happy for ever!"

"My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love.
Besides, what do you know of this young man? You don't even know
his name. The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when
James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I
must say that you should have shown more consideration. However, as
I said before, if he is rich&#160;… "

"Ah! Mother, Mother, let me be happy!"

Mrs. Vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical
gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a
stage-player, clasped her in her arms. At this moment, the door
opened and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room. He
was thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and
somewhat clumsy in movement. He was not so finely bred as his
sister. One would hardly have guessed the close relationship that
existed between them. Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes on him and
intensified her smile. She mentally elevated her son to the dignity
of an audience. She felt sure that the tableau was interesting.

"You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think,"
said the lad with a good-natured grumble.
