He winced at the mention of his grandfather. He had hateful
memories of him. "That does not matter," he answered. "I simply
want to see the place— that is all. Give me the key."

"And here is the key, sir," said the old lady, going over the
contents of her bunch with tremulously uncertain hands. "Here is
the key. I'll have it off the bunch in a moment. But you don't
think of living up there, sir, and you so comfortable here?"

"No, no," he cried petulantly. "Thank you, Leaf. That will
do."

She lingered for a few moments, and was garrulous over some
detail of the household. He sighed and told her to manage things as
she thought best. She left the room, wreathed in smiles.

As the door closed, Dorian put the key in his pocket and looked
round the room. His eye fell on a large, purple satin coverlet
heavily embroidered with gold, a splendid piece of late
seventeenth-century Venetian work that his grandfather had found in
a convent near Bologna. Yes, that would serve to wrap the dreadful
thing in. It had perhaps served often as a pall for the dead. Now
it was to hide something that had a corruption of its own, worse
than the corruption of death itself— something that would breed
horrors and yet would never die. What the worm was to the corpse,
his sins would be to the painted image on the canvas. They would
mar its beauty and eat away its grace. They would defile it and
make it shameful. And yet the thing would still live on. It would
be always alive.

He shuddered, and for a moment he regretted that he had not told
Basil the true reason why he had wished to hide the picture away.
Basil would have helped him to resist Lord Henry's influence, and
the still more poisonous influences that came from his own
temperament. The love that he bore him—for it was really love— had
nothing in it that was not noble and intellectual. It was not that
mere physical admiration of beauty that is born of the senses and
that dies when the senses tire. It was such love as Michelangelo
had known, and Montaigne, and Winckelmann, and Shakespeare himself.
Yes, Basil could have saved him. But it was too late now. The past
could always be annihilated. Regret, denial, or forgetfulness could
do that. But the future was inevitable. There were passions in him
that would find their terrible outlet, dreams that would make the
shadow of their evil real.

He took up from the couch the great purple-and-gold texture that
covered it, and, holding it in his hands, passed behind the screen.
Was the face on the canvas viler than before? It seemed to him that
it was unchanged, and yet his loathing of it was intensified. Gold
hair, blue eyes, and rose-red lips—they all were there. It was
simply the expression that had altered. That was horrible in its
cruelty. Compared to what he saw in it of censure or rebuke, how
shallow Basil's reproaches about Sibyl Vane had been!— how shallow,
and of what little account! His own soul was looking out at him
from the canvas and calling him to judgement. A look of pain came
across him, and he flung the rich pall over the picture. As he did
so, a knock came to the door. He passed out as his servant
entered.

"The persons are here, Monsieur."

He felt that the man must be got rid of at once. He must not be
allowed to know where the picture was being taken to. There was
something sly about him, and he had thoughtful, treacherous eyes.
Sitting down at the writing-table he scribbled a note to Lord
Henry, asking him to send him round something to read and reminding
him that they were to meet at eight-fifteen that evening.

"Wait for an answer," he said, handing it to him, "and show the
men in here."

In two or three minutes there was another knock, and Mr. Hubbard
himself, the celebrated frame-maker of South Audley Street, came in
with a somewhat rough-looking young assistant. Mr. Hubbard was a
florid, red-whiskered little man, whose admiration for art was
considerably tempered by the inveterate impecuniosity of most of
the artists who dealt with him. As a rule, he never left his shop.
He waited for people to come to him. But he always made an
exception in favour of Dorian Gray. There was something about
Dorian that charmed everybody. It was a pleasure even to see
him.
