"Here's Mother, dear, and you shall have another bird tomorrow,
if you want it."

As she spoke, Mrs. March came and took her place among them,
looking as if her holiday had not been much pleasanter than
theirs.

"Are you satisfied with your experiment, girls, or do you want
another week of it?" she asked, as Beth nestled up to her and the
rest turned toward her with brightening faces, as flowers turn
toward the sun.

"I don't!" cried Jo decidedly.

"Nor I," echoed the others.

"You think then, that it is better to have a few duties and live
a little for others, do you?"

"Lounging and larking doesn't pay," observed Jo, shaking her
head. "I'm tired of it and mean to go to work at something right
off."

"Suppose you learn plain cooking. That's a useful
accomplishment, which no woman should be without," said Mrs. March,
laughing inaudibly at the recollection of Jo's dinner party, for
she had met Miss Crocker and heard her account of it.

"Mother, did you go away and let everything be, just to see how
we'd get on?" cried Meg, who had had suspicions all day.

"Yes, I wanted you to see how the comfort of all depends on each
doing her share faithfully. While Hannah and I did your work, you
got on pretty well, though I don't think you were very happy or
amiable. So I thought, as a little lesson, I would show you what
happens when everyone thinks only of herself. Don't you feel that
it is pleasanter to help one another, to have daily duties which
make leisure sweet when it comes, and to bear and forbear, that
home may be comfortable and lovely to us all?"

"We do, Mother, we do!" cried the girls.
