"Jo can," said Meg, glad to recommend her sister. So Jo, feeling
that her late lessons in cookery were to do her honor, went to
preside over the coffeepot, while the children collected dry
sticks, and the boys made a fire and got water from a spring near
by. Miss Kate sketched and Frank talked to Beth, who was making
little mats of braided rushes to serve as plates.

The commander in chief and his aides soon spread the tablecloth
with an inviting array of eatables and drinkables, prettily
decorated with green leaves. Jo announced that the coffee was
ready, and everyone settled themselves to a hearty meal, for youth
is seldom dyspeptic, and exercise develops wholesome appetites. A
very merry lunch it was, for everything seemed fresh and funny, and
frequent peals of laughter startled a venerable horse who fed near
by. There was a pleasing inequality in the table, which produced
many mishaps to cups and plates, acorns dropped in the milk, little
black ants partook of the refreshments without being invited, and
fuzzy caterpillars swung down from the tree to see what was going
on. Three white-headed children peeped over the fence, and an
objectionable dog barked at them from the other side of the river
with all his might and main.

"There's salt here," said Laurie, as he handed Jo a saucer of
berries.

"Thank you, I prefer spiders," she replied, fishing up two
unwary little ones who had gone to a creamy death. "How dare you
remind me of that horrid dinner party, when yours is so nice in
every way?" added Jo, as they both laughed and ate out of one
plate, the china having run short.

"I had an uncommonly good time that day, and haven't got over it
yet. This is no credit to me, you know, I don't do anything. It's
you and Meg and Brooke who make it all go, and I'm no end obliged
to you. What shall we do when we can't eat anymore?" asked Laurie,
feeling that his trump card had been played when lunch was
over.

"Have games till it's cooler. I brought Authors, and I dare say
Miss Kate knows something new and nice. Go and ask her. She's
company, and you ought to stay with her more."

"Aren't you company too? I thought she'd suit Brooke, but he
keeps talking to Meg, and Kate just stares at them through that
ridiculous glass of hers. I'm going, so you needn't try to preach
propriety, for you can't do it, Jo."

Miss Kate did know several new games, and as the girls would
not, and the boys could not, eat any more, they all adjourned to
the drawing room to play Rig-marole.

"One person begins a story, any nonsense you like, and tells as
long as he pleases, only taking care to stop short at some exciting
point, when the next takes it up and does the same. It's very funny
when well done, and makes a perfect jumble of tragical comical
stuff to laugh over. Please start it, Mr. Brooke," said Kate, with
a commanding air, which surprised Meg, who treated the tutor with
as much respect as any other gentleman.

Lying on the grass at the feet of the two young ladies, Mr.
Brooke obediently began the story, with the handsome brown eyes
steadily fixed upon the sunshiny river.

"Once on a time, a knight went out into the world to seek his
fortune, for he had nothing but his sword and his shield. He
traveled a long while, nearly eight-and-twenty years, and had a
hard time of it, till he came to the palace of a good old king, who
had offered a reward to anyone who could tame and train a fine but
unbroken colt, of which he was very fond. The knight agreed to try,
and got on slowly but surely, for the colt was a gallant fellow,
and soon learned to love his new master, though he was freakish and
wild. Every day, when he gave his lessons to this pet of the
king's, the knight rode him through the city, and as he rode, he
looked everywhere for a certain beautiful face, which he had seen
many times in his dreams, but never found. One day, as he went
prancing down a quiet street, he saw at the window of a ruinous
castle the lovely face. He was delighted, inquired who lived in
this old castle, and was told that several captive princesses were
kept there by a spell, and spun all day to lay up money to buy
their liberty. The knight wished intensely that he could free them,
but he was poor and could only go by each day, watching for the
sweet face and longing to see it out in the sunshine. At last he
resolved to get into the castle and ask how he could help them. He
went and knocked. The great door flew open, and he beheldâ€¦ "
