
News from their father comforted the girls very much, for though
dangerously ill, the presence of the best and tenderest of nurses
had already done him good. Mr. Brooke sent a bulletin every day,
and as the head of the family, Meg insisted on reading the
dispatches, which grew more cheerful as the week passed. At first,
everyone was eager to write, and plump envelopes were carefully
poked into the letter box by one or other of the sisters, who felt
rather important with their Washington correspondence. As one of
these packets contained characteristic notes from the party, we
will rob an imaginary mail, and read them.


My dearest Mother:

It is impossible to tell you how happy your last
letter made us, for the news was so good we couldn't help laughing
and crying over it. How very kind Mr. Brooke is, and how fortunate
that Mr. Laurence's business detains him near you so long, since he
is so useful to you and Father. The girls are all as good as gold.
Jo helps me with the sewing, and insists on doing all sorts of hard
jobs. I should be afraid she might overdo, if I didn't know her
'moral fit' wouldn't last long. Beth is as regular about her tasks
as a clock, and never forgets what you told her. She grieves about
Father, and looks sober except when she is at her little piano. Amy
minds me nicely, and I take great care of her. She does her own
hair, and I am teaching her to make buttonholes and mend her
stockings. She tries very hard, and I know you will be pleased with
her improvement when you come. Mr. Laurence watches over us like a
motherly old hen, as Jo says, and Laurie is very kind and
neighborly. He and Jo keep us merry, for we get pretty blue
sometimes, and feel like orphans, with you so far away. Hannah is a
perfect saint. She does not scold at all, and always calls me Miss
Margaret, which is quite proper, you know, and treats me with
respect. We are all well and busy, but we long, day and night, to
have you back. Give my dearest love to Father, and believe me, ever
your own…

MEG


This note, prettily written on scented paper, was a great
contrast to the next, which was scribbled on a big sheet of thin
foreign paper, ornamented with blots and all manner of flourishes
and curly-tailed letters.


My precious Marmee:

Three cheers for dear Father! Brooke was a trump
to telegraph right off, and let us know the minute he was better. I
rushed up garret when the letter came, and tried to thank god for
being so good to us, but I could only cry, and say, "I'm glad! I'm
glad!" Didn't that do as well as a regular prayer? For I felt a
great many in my heart. We have such funny times, and now I can
enjoy them, for everyone is so desperately good, it's like living
in a nest of turtledoves. You'd laugh to see Meg head the table and
try to be motherish. She gets prettier every day, and I'm in love
with her sometimes. The children are regular archangels, and
I—well, I'm Jo, and never shall be anything else. Oh, I must tell
you that I came near having a quarrel with Laurie. I freed my mind
about a silly little thing, and he was offended. I was right, but
didn't speak as I ought, and he marched home, saying he wouldn't
come again till I begged pardon. I declared I wouldn't and got mad.
It lasted all day. I felt bad and wanted you very much. Laurie and
I are both so proud, it's hard to beg pardon. But I thought he'd
come to it, for I was in the right. He didn't come, and just at
night I remembered what you said when Amy fell into the river. I
read my little book, felt better, resolved not to let the sun set
on my anger, and ran over to tell Laurie I was sorry. I met him at
the gate, coming for the same thing. We both laughed, begged each
other's pardon, and felt all good and comfortable again.

I made a 'pome' yesterday, when I was helping
Hannah wash, and as Father likes my silly little things, I put it
in to amuse him. Give him my lovingest hug that ever was, and kiss
yourself a dozen times for your…

TOPSY-TURVY JO
