"Only a little, he's old for his age, and tall, and can be quite
grown-up in his manners if he likes. Then he's rich and generous
and good, and loves us all, and I say it's a pity my plan is
spoiled."

"I'm afraid Laurie is hardly grown-up enough for Meg, and
altogether too much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend
on. Don't make plans, Jo, but let time and their own hearts mate
your friends. We can't meddle safely in such matters, and had
better not get 'romantic rubbish' as you call it, into our heads,
lest it spoil our friendship."

"Well, I won't, but I hate to see things going all crisscross
and getting snarled up, when a pull here and a snip there would
straighten it out. I wish wearing flatirons on our heads would keep
us from growing up. But buds will be roses, and kittens cats,
more's the pity!"

"What's that about flatirons and cats?" asked Meg, as she crept
into the room with the finished letter in her hand.

"Only one of my stupid speeches. I'm going to bed. Come, Peggy,"
said Jo, unfolding herself like an animated puzzle.

"Quite right, and beautifully written. Please add that I send my
love to John," said Mrs. March, as she glanced over the letter and
gave it back.

"Do you call him 'John'?" asked Meg, smiling, with her innocent
eyes looking down into her mother's.

"Yes, he has been like a son to us, and we are very fond of
him," replied Mrs. March, returning the look with a keen one.

"I'm glad of that, he is so lonely. Good night, Mother, dear. It
is so inexpressibly comfortable to have you here," was Meg's
answer.

The kiss her mother gave her was a very tender one, and as she
went away, Mrs. March said, with a mixture of satisfaction and
regret, "She does not love John yet, but will soon learn to."


