Six weeks is a long time to wait, and a still longer time for a
girl to keep a secret, but Jo did both, and was just beginning to
give up all hope of ever seeing her manuscript again, when a letter
arrived which almost took her breath away, for on opening it, a
check for a hundred dollars fell into her lap. For a minute she
stared at it as if it had been a snake, then she read her letter
and began to cry. If the amiable gentleman who wrote that kindly
note could have known what intense happiness he was giving a fellow
creature, I think he would devote his leisure hours, if he has any,
to that amusement, for Jo valued the letter more than the money,
because it was encouraging, and after years of effort it was so
pleasant to find that she had learned to do something, though it
was only to write a sensation story.

A prouder young woman was seldom seen than she, when, having
composed herself, she electrified the family by appearing before
them with the letter in one hand, the check in the other,
announcing that she had won the prize. Of course there was a great
jubilee, and when the story came everyone read and praised it,
though after her father had told her that the language was good,
the romance fresh and hearty, and the tragedy quite thrilling, he
shook his head, and said in his unworldly wayâ€¦

"You can do better than this, Jo. Aim at the highest, and never
mind the money."

"I think the money is the best part of it. What will you do with
such a fortune?" asked Amy, regarding the magic slip of paper with
a reverential eye.

"Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two,"
answered Jo promptly.

To the seaside they went, after much discussion, and though Beth
didn't come home as plump and rosy as could be desired, she was
much better, while Mrs. March declared she felt ten years younger.
So Jo was satisfied with the investment of her prize money, and
fell to work with a cheery spirit, bent on earning more of those
delightful checks. She did earn several that year, and began to
feel herself a power in the house, for by the magic of a pen, her
'rubbish' turned into comforts for them all. The Duke's Daughter
paid the butcher's bill, A Phantom Hand put down a new carpet, and
the Curse of the Coventrys proved the blessing of the Marches in
the way of groceries and gowns.

Wealth is certainly a most desirable thing, but poverty has its
sunny side, and one of the sweet uses of adversity is the genuine
satisfaction which comes from hearty work of head or hand, and to
the inspiration of necessity, we owe half the wise, beautiful, and
useful blessings of the world. Jo enjoyed a taste of this
satisfaction, and ceased to envy richer girls, taking great comfort
in the knowledge that she could supply her own wants, and need ask
no one for a penny.

Little notice was taken of her stories, but they found a market,
and encouraged by this fact, she resolved to make a bold stroke for
fame and fortune. Having copied her novel for the fourth time, read
it to all her confidential friends, and submitted it with fear and
trembling to three publishers, she at last disposed of it, on
condition that she would cut it down one third, and omit all the
parts which she particularly admired.

"Now I must either bundle it back in to my tin kitchen to mold,
pay for printing it myself, or chop it up to suit purchasers and
get what I can for it. Fame is a very good thing to have in the
house, but cash is more convenient, so I wish to take the sense of
the meeting on this important subject," said Jo, calling a family
council.

"Don't spoil your book, my girl, for there is more in it than
you know, and the idea is well worked out. Let it wait and ripen,"
was her father's advice, and he practiced what he preached, having
waited patiently thirty years for fruit of his own to ripen, and
being in no haste to gather it even now when it was sweet and
mellow.

"It seems to me that Jo will profit more by taking the trial
than by waiting," said Mrs. March. "Criticism is the best test of
such work, for it will show her both unsuspected merits and faults,
and help her to do better next time. We are too partial, but the
praise and blame of outsiders will prove useful, even if she gets
but little money."
