"Hum!" said Jo, with a sigh. "If you wish it you'll have it, for
your wishes are always granted—mine never."

"Would you like to go?" asked Amy, thoughtfully patting her nose
with her knife.

"Rather!"

"Well, in a year or two I'll send for you, and we'll dig in the
Forum for relics, and carry out all the plans we've made so many
times."

"Thank you. I'll remind you of your promise when that joyful day
comes, if it ever does," returned Jo, accepting the vague but
magnificent offer as gratefully as she could.

There was not much time for preparation, and the house was in a
ferment till Amy was off. Jo bore up very well till the last
flutter of blue ribbon vanished, when she retired to her refuge,
the garret, and cried till she couldn't cry any more. Amy likewise
bore up stoutly till the steamer sailed. Then just as the gangway
was about to be withdrawn, it suddenly came over her that a whole
ocean was soon to roll between her and those who loved her best,
and she clung to Laurie, the last lingerer, saying with a sob…

"Oh, take care of them for me, and if anything should happen…
"

"I will, dear, I will, and if anything happens, I'll come and
comfort you," whispered Laurie, little dreaming that he would be
called upon to keep his word.

So Amy sailed away to find the Old World, which is always new
and beautiful to young eyes, while her father and friend watched
her from the shore, fervently hoping that none but gentle fortunes
would befall the happy-hearted girl, who waved her hand to them
till they could see nothing but the summer sunshine dazzling on the
sea.




