"It shall be stopped, your tide must not turn so soon, nineteen
is too young, Beth. I can't let you go. I'll work and pray and
fight against it. I'll keep you in spite of everything. There must
be ways, it can't be too late. God won't be so cruel as to take you
from me," cried poor Jo rebelliously, for her spirit was far less
piously submissive than Beth's.

Simple, sincere people seldom speak much of their piety. It
shows itself in acts rather than in words, and has more influence
than homilies or protestations. Beth could not reason upon or
explain the faith that gave her courage and patience to give up
life, and cheerfully wait for death. Like a confiding child, she
asked no questions, but left everything to God and nature, Father
and Mother of us all, feeling sure that they, and they only, could
teach and strengthen heart and spirit for this life and the life to
come. She did not rebuke Jo with saintly speeches, only loved her
better for her passionate affection, and clung more closely to the
dear human love, from which our Father never means us to be weaned,
but through which He draws us closer to Himself. She could not say,
"I'm glad to go," for life was very sweet for her. She could only
sob out, "I try to be willing," while she held fast to Jo, as the
first bitter wave of this great sorrow broke over them
together.

By and by Beth said, with recovered serenity, "You'll tell them
this when we go home?"

"I think they will see it without words," sighed Jo, for now it
seemed to her that Beth changed every day.

"Perhaps not. I've heard that the people who love best are often
blindest to such things. If they don't see it, you will tell them
for me. I don't want any secrets, and it's kinder to prepare them.
Meg has John and the babies to comfort her, but you must stand by
Father and Mother, won't you Jo?"

"If I can. But, Beth, I don't give up yet. I'm going to believe
that it is a sick fancy, and not let you think it's true." said Jo,
trying to speak cheerfully.

Beth lay a minute thinking, and then said in her quiet way, "I
don't know how to express myself, and shouldn't try to anyone but
you, because I can't speak out except to my Jo. I only mean to say
that I have a feeling that it never was intended I should live
long. I'm not like the rest of you. I never made any plans about
what I'd do when I grew up. I never thought of being married, as
you all did. I couldn't seem to imagine myself anything but stupid
little Beth, trotting about at home, of no use anywhere but there.
I never wanted to go away, and the hard part now is the leaving you
all. I'm not afraid, but it seems as if I should be homesick for
you even in heaven."

Jo could not speak, and for several minutes there was no sound
but the sigh of the wind and the lapping of the tide. A
white-winged gull flew by, with the flash of sunshine on its
silvery breast. Beth watched it till it vanished, and her eyes were
full of sadness. A little gray-coated sand bird came tripping over
the beach 'peeping' softly to itself, as if enjoying the sun and
sea. It came quite close to Beth, and looked at her with a friendly
eye and sat upon a warm stone, dressing its wet feathers, quite at
home. Beth smiled and felt comforted, for the tiny thing seemed to
offer its small friendship and remind her that a pleasant world was
still to be enjoyed.

"Dear little bird! See, Jo, how tame it is. I like peeps better
than the gulls. They are not so wild and handsome, but they seem
happy, confiding little things. I used to call them my birds last
summer, and Mother said they reminded her of meâ€”busy,
quaker-colored creatures, always near the shore, and always
chirping that contented little song of theirs. You are the gull,
Jo, strong and wild, fond of the storm and the wind, flying far out
to sea, and happy all alone. Meg is the turtledove, and Amy is like
the lark she writes about, trying to get up among the clouds, but
always dropping down into its nest again. Dear little girl! She's
so ambitious, but her heart is good and tender, and no matter how
high she flies, she never will forget home. I hope I shall see her
again, but she seems so far away."

"She is coming in the spring, and I mean that you shall be all
ready to see and enjoy her. I'm going to have you well and rosy by
that time," began Jo, feeling that of all the changes in Beth, the
talking change was the greatest, for it seemed to cost no effort
now, and she thought aloud in a way quite unlike bashful Beth.

"Jo, dear, don't hope any more. It won't do any good. I'm sure
of that. We won't be miserable, but enjoy being together while we
wait. We'll have happy times, for I don't suffer much, and I think
the tide will go out easily, if you help me."
