
A daughter of the gods,
Devinely tall, and most devinely fair,"


was all the satisfaction she got, however.

The set in which they found themselves was composed of English,
and Amy was compelled to walk decorously through a cotillion,
feeling all the while as if she could dance the tarantella with
relish. Laurie resigned her to the 'nice little boy', and went to
do his duty to Flo, without securing Amy for the joys to come,
which reprehensible want of forethought was properly punished, for
she immediately engaged herself till supper, meaning to relent if
he then gave any signs penitence. She showed him her ball book with
demure satisfaction when he strolled instead of rushed up to claim
her for the next, a glorious polka redowa. But his polite regrets
didn't impose upon her, and when she galloped away with the Count,
she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt with an actual expression of
relief.

That was unpardonable, and Amy took no more notice of him for a
long while, except a word now and then when she came to her
chaperon between the dances for a necessary pin or a moment's rest.
Her anger had a good effect, however, for she hid it under a
smiling face, and seemed unusually blithe and brilliant. Laurie's
eyes followed her with pleasure, for she neither romped nor
sauntered, but danced with spirit and grace, making the delightsome
pastime what it should be. He very naturally fell to studying her
from this new point of view, and before the evening was half over,
had decided that 'little Amy was going to make a very charming
woman'.

It was a lively scene, for soon the spirit of the social season
took possession of everyone, and Christmas merriment made all faces
shine, hearts happy, and heels light. The musicians fiddled,
tooted, and banged as if they enjoyed it, everybody danced who
could, and those who couldn't admired their neighbors with uncommon
warmth. The air was dark with Davises, and many Joneses gamboled
like a flock of young giraffes. The golden secretary darted through
the room like a meteor with a dashing French-woman who carpeted the
floor with her pink satin train. The serene Teuton found the
supper-table and was happy, eating steadily through the bill of
fare, and dismayed the garcons by the ravages he committed. But the
Emperor's friend covered himself with glory, for he danced
everything, whether he knew it or not, and introduced impromptu
pirouettes when the figures bewildered him. The boyish abandon of
that stout man was charming to behold, for though he 'carried
weight', he danced like an India-rubber ball. He ran, he flew, he
pranced, his face glowed, his bald head shown, his coattails waved
wildly, his pumps actually twinkled in the air, and when the music
stopped, he wiped the drops from his brow, and beamed upon his
fellow men like a French Pickwick without glasses.

Amy and her Pole distinguished themselves by equal enthusiasm
but more graceful agility, and Laurie found himself involuntarily
keeping time to the rhythmic rise and fall of the white slippers as
they flew by as indefatigably as if winged. When little Vladimir
finally relinquished her, with assurances that he was 'desolated to
leave so early', she was ready to rest, and see how her recreant
knight had borne his punishment.

It had been successful, for at three-and-twenty, blighted
affections find a balm in friendly society, and young nerves will
thrill, young blood dance, and healthy young spirits rise, when
subjected to the enchantment of beauty, light, music, and motion.
Laurie had a waked-up look as he rose to give her his seat, and
when he hurried away to bring her some supper, she said to herself,
with a satisfied smile, "Ah, I thought that would do him good!"

"You look like Balzac's '
Femme Peinte Par Elle-Meme
',"
he said, as he fanned her with one hand and held her coffee cup in
the other.

