


Chapter

15
On the Shelf


In France the young girls have a dull time of it till they are
married, when 'Vive la liberte!' becomes their motto. In America,
as everyone knows, girls early sign the declaration of
independence, and enjoy their freedom with republican zest, but the
young matrons usually abdicate with the first heir to the throne
and go into a seclusion almost as close as a French nunnery, though
by no means as quiet. Whether they like it or not, they are
virtually put upon the shelf as soon as the wedding excitement is
over, and most of them might exclaim, as did a very pretty woman
the other day, "I'm as handsome as ever, but no one takes any
notice of me because I'm married."

Not being a belle or even a fashionable lady, Meg did not
experience this affliction till her babies were a year old, for in
her little world primitive customs prevailed, and she found herself
more admired and beloved than ever.

As she was a womanly little woman, the maternal instinct was
very strong, and she was entirely absorbed in her children, to the
utter exclusion of everything and everybody else. Day and night she
brooded over them with tireless devotion and anxiety, leaving John
to the tender mercies of the help, for an Irish lady now presided
over the kitchen department. Being a domestic man, John decidedly
missed the wifely attentions he had been accustomed to receive, but
as he adored his babies, he cheerfully relinquished his comfort for
a time, supposing with masculine ignorance that peace would soon be
restored. But three months passed, and there was no return of
repose. Meg looked worn and nervous, the babies absorbed every
minute of her time, the house was neglected, and Kitty, the cook,
who took life 'aisy', kept him on short commons. When he went out
in the morning he was bewildered by small commissions for the
captive mamma, if he came gaily in at night, eager to embrace his
family, he was quenched by a "Hush! They are just asleep after
worrying all day." If he proposed a little amusement at home, "No,
it would disturb the babies." If he hinted at a lecture or a
concert, he was answered with a reproachful look, and a
decided—"Leave my children for pleasure, never!" His sleep was
broken by infant wails and visions of a phantom figure pacing
noiselessly to and fro in the watches of the night. His meals were
interrupted by the frequent flight of the presiding genius, who
deserted him, half-helped, if a muffled chirp sounded from the nest
above. And when he read his paper of an evening, Demi's colic got
into the shipping list and Daisy's fall affected the price of
stocks, for Mrs. Brooke was only interested in domestic news.

The poor man was very uncomfortable, for the children had bereft
him of his wife, home was merely a nursery and the perpetual
'hushing' made him feel like a brutal intruder whenever he entered
the sacred precincts of Babyland. He bore it very patiently for six
months, and when no signs of amendment appeared, he did what other
paternal exiles do—tried to get a little comfort elsewhere. Scott
had married and gone to housekeeping not far off, and John fell
into the way of running over for an hour or two of an evening, when
his own parlor was empty, and his own wife singing lullabies that
seemed to have no end. Mrs. Scott was a lively, pretty girl, with
nothing to do but be agreeable, and she performed her mission most
successfully. The parlor was always bright and attractive, the
chessboard ready, the piano in tune, plenty of gay gossip, and a
nice little supper set forth in tempting style.

John would have preferred his own fireside if it had not been so
lonely, but as it was he gratefully took the next best thing and
enjoyed his neighbor's society.

Meg rather approved of the new arrangement at first, and found
it a relief to know that John was having a good time instead of
dozing in the parlor, or tramping about the house and waking the
children. But by-and-by, when the teething worry was over and the
idols went to sleep at proper hours, leaving Mamma time to rest,
she began to miss John, and find her workbasket dull company, when
he was not sitting opposite in his old dressing gown, comfortably
scorching his slippers on the fender. She would not ask him to stay
at home, but felt injured because he did not know that she wanted
him without being told, entirely forgetting the many evenings he
had waited for her in vain. She was nervous and worn out with
watching and worry, and in that unreasonable frame of mind which
the best of mothers occasionally experience when domestic cares
oppress them. Want of exercise robs them of cheerfulness, and too
much devotion to that idol of American women, the teapot, makes
them feel as if they were all nerve and no muscle.

"Yes," she would say, looking in the glass, "I'm getting old and
ugly. John doesn't find me interesting any longer, so he leaves his
faded wife and goes to see his pretty neighbor, who has no
incumbrances. Well, the babies love me, they don't care if I am
thin and pale and haven't time to crimp my hair, they are my
comfort, and some day John will see what I've gladly sacrificed for
them, won't he, my precious?"
