
That seemed a hard question to answer, and Laurie began to wish
he had to work for his daily bread. Now if ever, occurred an
eligible opportunity for 'going to the devil', as he once forcibly
expressed it, for he had plenty of money and nothing to do, and
Satan is proverbially fond of providing employment for full and
idle hands. The poor fellow had temptations enough from without and
from within, but he withstood them pretty well, for much as he
valued liberty, he valued good faith and confidence more, so his
promise to his grandfather, and his desire to be able to look
honestly into the eyes of the women who loved him, and say "All's
well," kept him safe and steady.

Very likely some Mrs. Grundy will observe, "I don't believe it,
boys will be boys, young men must sow their wild oats, and women
must not expect miracles." I dare say you don't, Mrs. Grundy, but
it's true nevertheless. Women work a good many miracles, and I have
a persuasion that they may perform even that of raising the
standard of manhood by refusing to echo such sayings. Let the boys
be boys, the longer the better, and let the young men sow their
wild oats if they must. But mothers, sisters, and friends may help
to make the crop a small one, and keep many tares from spoiling the
harvest, by believing, and showing that they believe, in the
possibility of loyalty to the virtues which make men manliest in
good women's eyes. If it is a feminine delusion, leave us to enjoy
it while we may, for without it half the beauty and the romance of
life is lost, and sorrowful forebodings would embitter all our
hopes of the brave, tenderhearted little lads, who still love their
mothers better than themselves and are not ashamed to own it.

Laurie thought that the task of forgetting his love for Jo would
absorb all his powers for years, but to his great surprise he
discovered it grew easier every day. He refused to believe it at
first, got angry with himself, and couldn't understand it, but
these hearts of ours are curious and contrary things, and time and
nature work their will in spite of us. Laurie's heart wouldn't
ache. The wound persisted in healing with a rapidity that
astonished him, and instead of trying to forget, he found himself
trying to remember. He had not foreseen this turn of affairs, and
was not prepared for it. He was disgusted with himself, surprised
at his own fickleness, and full of a queer mixture of
disappointment and relief that he could recover from such a
tremendous blow so soon. He carefully stirred up the embers of his
lost love, but they refused to burst into a blaze. There was only a
comfortable glow that warmed and did him good without putting him
into a fever, and he was reluctantly obliged to confess that the
boyish passion was slowly subsiding into a more tranquil sentiment,
very tender, a little sad and resentful still, but that was sure to
pass away in time, leaving a brotherly affection which would last
unbroken to the end.

As the word 'brotherly' passed through his mind in one of his
reveries, he smiled, and glanced up at the picture of Mozart that
was before him…

"Well, he was a great man, and when he couldn't have one sister
he took the other, and was happy."

Laurie did not utter the words, but he thought them, and the
next instant kissed the little old ring, saying to himself, "No, I
won't! I haven't forgotten, I never can. I'll try again, and if
that fails, why then… "

Leaving his sentence unfinished, he seized pen and paper and
wrote to Jo, telling her that he could not settle to anything while
there was the least hope of her changing her mind. Couldn't she,
wouldn't she—and let him come home and be happy? While waiting for
an answer he did nothing, but he did it energetically, for he was
in a fever of impatience. It came at last, and settled his mind
effectually on one point, for Jo decidedly couldn't and wouldn't.
She was wrapped up in Beth, and never wished to hear the word love
again. Then she begged him to be happy with somebody else, but
always keep a little corner of his heart for his loving sister Jo.
In a postscript she desired him not to tell Amy that Beth was
worse, she was coming home in the spring and there was no need of
saddening the remainder of her stay. That would be time enough,
please God, but Laurie must write to her often, and not let her
feel lonely, homesick or anxious.

"So I will, at once. Poor little girl, it will be a sad going
home for her, I'm afraid," and Laurie opened his desk, as if
writing to Amy had been the proper conclusion of the sentence left
unfinished some weeks before.

But he did not write the letter that day, for as he rummaged out
his best paper, he came across something which changed his purpose.
Tumbling about in one part of the desk among bills, passports, and
business documents of various kinds were several of Jo's letters,
and in another compartment were three notes from Amy, carefully
tied up with one of her blue ribbons and sweetly suggestive of the
little dead roses put away inside. With a half-repentant,
half-amused expression, Laurie gathered up all Jo's letters,
smoothed, folded, and put them neatly into a small drawer of the
desk, stood a minute turning the ring thoughtfully on his finger,
then slowly drew it off, laid it with the letters, locked the
drawer, and went out to hear High Mass at Saint Stefan's, feeling
as if there had been a funeral, and though not overwhelmed with
affliction, this seemed a more proper way to spend the rest of the
day than in writing letters to charming young ladies.

The letter went very soon, however, and was promptly answered,
for Amy was homesick, and confessed it in the most delightfully
confiding manner. The correspondence flourished famously, and
letters flew to and fro with unfailing regularity all through the
early spring. Laurie sold his busts, made allumettes of his opera,
and went back to Paris, hoping somebody would arrive before long.
He wanted desperately to go to Nice, but would not till he was
asked, and Amy would not ask him, for just then she was having
little experiences of her own, which made her rather wish to avoid
the quizzical eyes of 'our boy'.

