When no one could eat any more, the Professor proposed the first
regular toast, which was always drunk at such times—"Aunt March,
God bless her!" A toast heartily given by the good man, who never
forgot how much he owed her, and quietly drunk by the boys, who had
been taught to keep her memory green.

"Now, Grandma's sixtieth birthday! Long life to her, with three
times three!"

That was given with a will, as you may well believe, and the
cheering once begun, it was hard to stop it. Everybody's health was
proposed, from Mr. Laurence, who was considered their special
patron, to the astonished guinea pig, who had strayed from its
proper sphere in search of its young master. Demi, as the oldest
grandchild, then presented the queen of the day with various gifts,
so numerous that they were transported to the festive scene in a
wheelbarrow. Funny presents, some of them, but what would have been
defects to other eyes were ornaments to Grandma's—for the
children's gifts were all their own. Every stitch Daisy's patient
little fingers had put into the handkerchiefs she hemmed was better
than embroidery to Mrs. March. Demi's miracle of mechanical skill,
though the cover wouldn't shut, Rob's footstool had a wiggle in its
uneven legs that she declared was soothing, and no page of the
costly book Amy's child gave her was so fair as that on which
appeared in tipsy capitals, the words—"To dear Grandma, from her
little Beth."

During the ceremony the boys had mysteriously disappeared, and
when Mrs. March had tried to thank her children, and broken down,
while Teddy wiped her eyes on his pinafore, the Professor suddenly
began to sing. Then, from above him, voice after voice took up the
words, and from tree to tree echoed the music of the unseen choir,
as the boys sang with all their hearts the little song that Jo had
written, Laurie set to music, and the Professor trained his lads to
give with the best effect. This was something altogether new, and
it proved a grand success, for Mrs. March couldn't get over her
surprise, and insisted on shaking hands with every one of the
featherless birds, from tall Franz and Emil to the little quadroon,
who had the sweetest voice of all.

After this, the boys dispersed for a final lark, leaving Mrs.
March and her daughters under the festival tree.

"I don't think I ever ought to call myself 'unlucky Jo' again,
when my greatest wish has been so beautifully gratified," said Mrs.
Bhaer, taking Teddy's little fist out of the milk pitcher, in which
he was rapturously churning.

"And yet your life is very different from the one you pictured
so long ago. Do you remember our castles in the air?" asked Amy,
smiling as she watched Laurie and John playing cricket with the
boys.

"Dear fellows! It does my heart good to see them forget business
and frolic for a day," answered Jo, who now spoke in a maternal way
of all mankind. "Yes, I remember, but the life I wanted then seems
selfish, lonely, and cold to me now. I haven't given up the hope
that I may write a good book yet, but I can wait, and I'm sure it
will be all the better for such experiences and illustrations as
these," and Jo pointed from the lively lads in the distance to her
father, leaning on the Professor's arm, as they walked to and fro
in the sunshine, deep in one of the conversations which both
enjoyed so much, and then to her mother, sitting enthroned among
her daughters, with their children in her lap and at her feet, as
if all found help and happiness in the face which never could grow
old to them.

"My castle was the most nearly realized of all. I asked for
splendid things, to be sure, but in my heart I knew I should be
satisfied, if I had a little home, and John, and some dear children
like these. I've got them all, thank God, and am the happiest woman
in the world," and Meg laid her hand on her tall boy's head, with a
face full of tender and devout content.

"My castle is very different from what I planned, but I would
not alter it, though, like Jo, I don't relinquish all my artistic
hopes, or confine myself to helping others fulfill their dreams of
beauty. I've begun to model a figure of baby, and Laurie says it is
the best thing I've ever done. I think so, myself, and mean to do
it in marble, so that, whatever happens, I may at least keep the
image of my little angel."

As Amy spoke, a great tear dropped on the golden hair of the
sleeping child in her arms, for her one well-beloved daughter was a
frail little creature and the dread of losing her was the shadow
over Amy's sunshine. This cross was doing much for both father and
mother, for one love and sorrow bound them closely together. Amy's
nature was growing sweeter, deeper, and more tender. Laurie was
growing more serious, strong, and firm, and both were learning that
beauty, youth, good fortune, even love itself, cannot keep care and
pain, loss and sorrow, from the most blessed for&#160;…
