


Chapter

5
Being Neighborly


"What in the world are you going to do now, Jo?" asked Meg one
snowy afternoon, as her sister came tramping through the hall, in
rubber boots, old sack, and hood, with a broom in one hand and a
shovel in the other.

"Going out for exercise," answered Jo with a mischievous twinkle
in her eyes.

"I should think two long walks this morning would have been
enough! It's cold and dull out, and I advise you to stay warm and
dry by the fire, as I do," said Meg with a shiver.

"Never take advice! Can't keep still all day, and not being a
pussycat, I don't like to doze by the fire. I like adventures, and
I'm going to find some."

Meg went back to toast her feet and read&#160;
Ivanhoe
,
and Jo began to dig paths with great energy. The snow was light,
and with her broom she soon swept a path all round the garden, for
Beth to walk in when the sun came out and the invalid dolls needed
air. Now, the garden separated the Marches' house from that of Mr.
Laurence. Both stood in a suburb of the city, which was still
countrylike, with groves and lawns, large gardens, and quiet
streets. A low hedge parted the two estates. On one side was an
old, brown house, looking rather bare and shabby, robbed of the
vines that in summer covered its walls and the flowers, which then
surrounded it. On the other side was a stately stone mansion,
plainly betokening every sort of comfort and luxury, from the big
coach house and well-kept grounds to the conservatory and the
glimpses of lovely things one caught between the rich curtains.

Yet it seemed a lonely, lifeless sort of house, for no children
frolicked on the lawn, no motherly face ever smiled at the windows,
and few people went in and out, except the old gentleman and his
grandson.
