
"Don't be sorry, I won't let it hurt me. I'll forget all the bad
and remember only the good, for I did enjoy a great deal, and thank
you very much for letting me go. I'll not be sentimental or
dissatisfied, Mother. I know I'm a silly little girl, and I'll stay
with you till I'm fit to take care of myself. But it is nice to be
praised and admired, and I can't help saying I like it," said Meg,
looking half ashamed of the confession.

"That is perfectly natural, and quite harmless, if the liking
does not become a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly
things. Learn to know and value the praise which is worth having,
and to excite the admiration of excellent people by being modest as
well as pretty, Meg."

Margaret sat thinking a moment, while Jo stood with her hands
behind her, looking both interested and a little perplexed, for it
was a new thing to see Meg blushing and talking about admiration,
lovers, and things of that sort. And Jo felt as if during that
fortnight her sister had grown up amazingly, and was drifting away
from her into a world where she could not follow.

"Mother, do you have 'plans', as Mrs. Moffat said?" asked Meg
bashfully.

"Yes, my dear, I have a great many, all mothers do, but mine
differ somewhat from Mrs. Moffat's, I suspect. I will tell you some
of them, for the time has come when a word may set this romantic
little head and heart of yours right, on a very serious subject.
You are young, Meg, but not too young to understand me, and
mothers' lips are the fittest to speak of such things to girls like
you. Jo, your turn will come in time, perhaps, so listen to my
'plans' and help me carry them out, if they are good."

Jo went and sat on one arm of the chair, looking as if she
thought they were about to join in some very solemn affair. Holding
a hand of each, and watching the two young faces wistfully, Mrs.
March said, in her serious yet cheery wayâ€¦

"I want my daughters to be beautiful, accomplished, and good. To
be admired, loved, and respected. To have a happy youth, to be well
and wisely married, and to lead useful, pleasant lives, with as
little care and sorrow to try them as God sees fit to send. To be
loved and chosen by a good man is the best and sweetest thing which
can happen to a woman, and I sincerely hope my girls may know this
beautiful experience. It is natural to think of it, Meg, right to
hope and wait for it, and wise to prepare for it, so that when the
happy time comes, you may feel ready for the duties and worthy of
the joy. My dear girls, I am ambitious for you, but not to have you
make a dash in the world, marry rich men merely because they are
rich, or have splendid houses, which are not homes because love is
wanting. Money is a needful and precious thing, and when well used,
a noble thing, but I never want you to think it is the first or
only prize to strive for. I'd rather see you poor men's wives, if
you were happy, beloved, contented, than queens on thrones, without
self-respect and peace."

"Poor girls don't stand any chance, Belle says, unless they put
themselves forward," sighed Meg.

"Then we'll be old maids," said Jo stoutly.

"Right, Jo. Better be happy old maids than unhappy wives, or
unmaidenly girls, running about to find husbands," said Mrs. March
decidedly. "Don't be troubled, Meg, poverty seldom daunts a sincere
lover. Some of the best and most honored women I know were poor
girls, but so love-worthy that they were not allowed to be old
maids. Leave these things to time. Make this home happy, so that
you may be fit for homes of your own, if they are offered you, and
contented here if they are not. One thing remember, my girls.
Mother is always ready to be your confidant, Father to be your
friend, and both of us hope and trust that our daughters, whether
married or single, will be the pride and comfort of our lives."

