


Chapter

10
The P.C. and P.O.


As spring came on, a new set of amusements became the fashion,
and the lengthening days gave long afternoons for work and play of
all sorts. The garden had to be put in order, and each sister had a
quarter of the little plot to do what she liked with. Hannah used
to say, "I'd know which each of them gardings belonged to, ef I see
'em in Chiny," and so she might, for the girls' tastes differed as
much as their characters. Meg's had roses and heliotrope, myrtle,
and a little orange tree in it. Jo's bed was never alike two
seasons, for she was always trying experiments. This year it was to
be a plantation of sun flowers, the seeds of which cheerful land
aspiring plant were to feed Aunt Cockle-top and her family of
chicks. Beth had old-fashioned fragrant flowers in her garden,
sweet peas and mignonette, larkspur, pinks, pansies, and
southernwood, with chickweed for the birds and catnip for the
pussies. Amy had a bower in hers, rather small and earwiggy, but
very pretty to look at, with honeysuckle and morning-glories
hanging their colored horns and bells in graceful wreaths all over
it, tall white lilies, delicate ferns, and as many brilliant,
picturesque plants as would consent to blossom there.

Gardening, walks, rows on the river, and flower hunts employed
the fine days, and for rainy ones, they had house diversions, some
old, some new, all more or less original. One of these was the
'P.C.', for as secret societies were the fashion, it was thought
proper to have one, and as all of the girls admired Dickens, they
called themselves the Pickwick Club. With a few interruptions, they
had kept this up for a year, and met every Saturday evening in the
big garret, on which occasions the ceremonies were as follows:
Three chairs were arranged in a row before a table on which was a
lamp, also four white badges, with a big 'P.C.' in different colors
on each, and the weekly newspaper called, The Pickwick Portfolio,
to which all contributed something, while Jo, who reveled in pens
and ink, was the editor. At seven o'clock, the four members
ascended to the clubroom, tied their badges round their heads, and
took their seats with great solemnity. Meg, as the eldest, was
Samuel Pickwick, Jo, being of a literary turn, Augustus Snodgrass,
Beth, because she was round and rosy, Tracy Tupman, and Amy, who
was always trying to do what she couldn't, was Nathaniel Winkle.
Pickwick, the president, read the paper, which was filled with
original tales, poetry, local news, funny advertisements, and
hints, in which they good-naturedly reminded each other of their
faults and short comings. On one occasion, Mr. Pickwick put on a
pair of spectacles without any glass, rapped upon the table,
hemmed, and having stared hard at Mr. Snodgrass, who was tilting
back in his chair, till he arranged himself properly, began to
read:


"THE PICKWICK PORTFOLIO"

&#160;

MAY 20, 18â€”

POET'S CORNER

