


Chapter

2

&#160;


Those whom the hurricane had just thrown on this coast were
neither aeronauts by profession nor amateurs. They were prisoners
of war whose boldness had induced them to escape in this
extraordinary manner.

A hundred times they had almost perished! A hundred times had
they almost fallen from their torn balloon into the depths of the
ocean. But Heaven had reserved them for a strange destiny, and
after having, on the 20th of March, escaped from Richmond, besieged
by the troops of General Ulysses Grant, they found themselves seven
thousand miles from the capital of Virginia, which was the
principal stronghold of the South, during the terrible War of
Secession. Their aerial voyage had lasted five days.

The curious circumstances which led to the escape of the
prisoners were as follows:

That same year, in the month of February, 1865, in one of the
coups de main by which General Grant attempted, though in vain, to
possess himself of Richmond, several of his officers fell into the
power of the enemy and were detained in the town. One of the most
distinguished was Captain Cyrus Harding. He was a native of
Massachusetts, a first-class engineer, to whom the government had
confided, during the war, the direction of the railways, which were
so important at that time. A true Northerner, thin, bony, lean,
about forty-five years of age; his close-cut hair and his beard, of
which he only kept a thick mustache, were already getting gray. He
had one-of those finely-developed heads which appear made to be
struck on a medal, piercing eyes, a serious mouth, the physiognomy
of a clever man of the military school. He was one of those
engineers who began by handling the hammer and pickaxe, like
generals who first act as common soldiers. Besides mental power, he
also possessed great manual dexterity. His muscles exhibited
remarkable proofs of tenacity. A man of action as well as a man of
thought, all he did was without effort to one of his vigorous and
sanguine temperament. Learned, clear-headed, and practical, he
fulfilled in all emergencies those three conditions which united
ought to insure human successâ€”activity of mind and body, impetuous
wishes, and powerful will. He might have taken for his motto that
of William of Orange in the 17th century: "I can undertake and
persevere even without hope of success." Cyrus Harding was courage
personified. He had been in all the battles of that war. After
having begun as a volunteer at Illinois, under Ulysses Grant, he
fought at Paducah, Belmont, Pittsburg Landing, at the siege of
Corinth, Port Gibson, Black River, Chattanooga, the Wilderness, on
the Potomac, everywhere and valiantly, a soldier worthy of the
general who said, "I never count my dead!" And hundreds of times
Captain Harding had almost been among those who were not counted by
the terrible Grant; but in these combats where he never spared
himself, fortune favored him till the moment when he was wounded
and taken prisoner on the field of battle near Richmond. At the
same time and on the same day another important personage fell into
the hands of the Southerners. This was no other than Gideon Spilen,
a reporter for the New York Herald, who had been ordered to follow
the changes of the war in the midst of the Northern armies.

Gideon Spilett was one of that race of indomitable English or
American chroniclers, like Stanley and others, who stop at nothing
to obtain exact information, and transmit it to their journal in
the shortest possible time. The newspapers of the Union, such as
the New York Herald, are genuine powers, and their reporters are
men to be reckoned with. Gideon Spilett ranked among the first of
those reporters: a man of great merit, energetic, prompt and ready
for anything, full of ideas, having traveled over the whole world,
soldier and artist, enthusiastic in council, resolute in action,
caring neither for trouble, fatigue, nor danger, when in pursuit of
information, for himself first, and then for his journal, a perfect
treasury of knowledge on all sorts of curious subjects, of the
unpublished, of the unknown, and of the impossible. He was one of
those intrepid observers who write under fire, "reporting" among
bullets, and to whom every danger is welcome.

He also had been in all the battles, in the first rank, revolver
in one hand, note-book in the other; grape-shot never made his
pencil tremble. He did not fatigue the wires with incessant
telegrams, like those who speak when they have nothing to say, but
each of his notes, short, decisive, and clear, threw light on some
important point. Besides, he was not wanting in humor. It was he
who, after the affair of the Black River, determined at any cost to
keep his place at the wicket of the telegraph office, and after
having announced to his journal the result of the battle,
telegraphed for two hours the first chapters of the Bible. It cost
the New York Herald two thousand dollars, but the New York Herald
published the first intelligence.

