


Chapter

15

&#160;


The next day, the 17th of April, the sailor's first words were
addressed to Gideon Spilett.

"Well, sir," he asked, "what shall we do to-day?"

"What the captain pleases," replied the reporter.

Till then the engineer's companions had been brickmakers and
potters, now they were to become metallurgists.

The day before, after breakfast, they had explored as far as the
point of Mandible Cape, seven miles distant from the Chimneys.
There, the long series of downs ended, and the soil had a volcanic
appearance. There were no longer high cliffs as at Prospect
Heights, but a strange and capricious border which surrounded the
narrow gulf between the two capes, formed of mineral matter, thrown
up by the volcano. Arrived at this point the settlers retraced
their steps, and at nightfall entered the Chimneys; but they did
not sleep before the question of knowing whether they could think
of leaving Lincoln Island or not was definitely settled.

The twelve hundred miles which separated the island from the
Pomoutous Island was a considerable distance. A boat could not
cross it, especially at the approach of the bad season. Pencroft
had expressly declared this. Now, to construct a simple boat even
with the necessary tools, was a difficult work, and the colonists
not having tools they must begin by making hammers, axes, adzes,
saws, augers, planes, etc., which would take some time. It was
decided, therefore, that they would winter at Lincoln Island, and
that they would look for a more comfortable dwelling than the
Chimneys, in which to pass the winter months.

