


Chapter

17

&#160;


The next day, the 7th of May, Harding and Gideon Spilett,
leaving Neb to prepare breakfast, climbed Prospect Heights, while
Herbert and Pencroft ascended by the river, to renew their store of
wood.

The engineer and the reporter soon reached the little beach on
which the dugong had been stranded. Already flocks of birds had
attacked the mass of flesh, and had to be driven away with stones,
for Cyrus wished to keep the fat for the use of the colony. As to
the animal's flesh it would furnish excellent food, for in the
islands of the Malay Archipelago and elsewhere, it is especially
reserved for the table of the native princes. But that was Neb's
affair.

At this moment Cyrus Harding had other thoughts. He was much
interested in the incident of the day before. He wished to
penetrate the mystery of that submarine combat, and to ascertain
what monster could have given the dugong so strange a wound. He
remained at the edge of the lake, looking, observing; but nothing
appeared under the tranquil waters, which sparkled in the first
rays of the rising sun.

At the beach, on which lay the body of the dugong, the water was
tolerably shallow, but from this point the bottom of the lake
sloped gradually, and it was probable that the depth was
considerable in the center. The lake might be considered as a large
center basin, which was filled by the water from the Red Creek.

"Well, Cyrus," said the reporter, "there seems to be nothing
suspicious in this water."

"No, my dear Spilett," replied the engineer, "and I really do
not know how to account for the incident of yesterday."

