


Chapter

20

&#160;


The winter season set in with the month of June, which
corresponds with the month of December in the Northern Hemisphere.
It began with showers and squalls, which succeeded each other
without intermission. The tenants of Granite House could appreciate
the advantages of a dwelling which sheltered them from the
inclement weather. The Chimneys would have been quite insufficient
to protect them against the rigor of winter, and it was to be
feared that the high tides would make another irruption. Cyrus
Harding had taken precautions against this contingency, so as to
preserve as much as possible the forge and furnace which were
established there.

During the whole of the month of June the time was employed in
different occupations, which excluded neither hunting nor fishing,
the larder being, therefore, abundantly supplied. Pencroft, so soon
as he had leisure, proposed to set some traps, from which he
expected great results. He soon made some snares with creepers, by
the aid of which the warren henceforth every day furnished its
quota of rodents. Neb employed nearly all his time in salting or
smoking meat, which insured their always having plenty of
provisions. The question of clothes was now seriously discussed,
the settlers having no other garments than those they wore when the
balloon threw them on the island. These clothes were warm and good;
they had taken great care of them as well as of their linen, and
they were perfectly whole, but they would soon need to be replaced.
Moreover, if the winter was severe, the settlers would suffer
greatly from cold.

On this subject the ingenuity of Harding was at fault. They must
provide for their most pressing wants, settle their dwelling, and
lay in a store of food; thus the cold might come upon them before
the question of clothes had been settled. They must therefore make
up their minds to pass this first winter without additional
clothing. When the fine season came round again, they would
regularly hunt those musmons which had been seen on the expedition
to Mount Franklin, and the wool once collected, the engineer would
know how to make it into strong warm stuffâ€¦ . How? He would
consider.

"Well, we are free to roast ourselves at Granite House!" said
Pencroft. "There are heaps of fuel, and no reason for sparing
it."

"Besides," added Gideon Spilett, "Lincoln Island is not situated
under a very high latitude, and probably the winters here are not
severe. Did you not say, Cyrus, that this thirty-fifth parallel
corresponded to that of Spain in the other hemisphere?"

"Doubtless," replied the engineer, "but some winters in Spain
are very cold! No want of snow and ice; and perhaps Lincoln Island
is just as rigourously tried. However, it is an island, and as
such, I hope that the temperature will be more moderate."

