
They were now at the 4th of June. It was Whit Sunday and they
agreed to observe this feast. All work was suspended, and prayers
were offered to Heaven. But these prayers were now thanksgivings.
The settlers in Lincoln Island were no longer the miserable
castaways thrown on the islet. They asked for nothing moreâ€”they
gave thanks. The next day, the 5th of June, in rather uncertain
weather, they set out for the islet. They had to profit by the low
tide to cross the Channel, and it was agreed that they would
construct, for this purpose, as well as they could, a boat which
would render communication so much easier, and would also permit
them to ascend the Mercy, at the time of their grand exploration of
the southwest of the island, which was put off till the first fine
days.

The seals were numerous, and the hunters, armed with their
iron-tipped spears, easily killed half-a-dozen. Neb and Pencroft
skinned them, and only brought back to Granite House their fat and
skin, this skin being intended for the manufacture of boots.

The result of the hunt was this: nearly three hundred pounds of
fat, all to be employed in the fabrication of candles.

The operation was extremely simple, and if it did not yield
absolutely perfect results, they were at least very useful. Cyrus
Harding would only have had at his disposal sulphuric acid, but by
heating this acid with the neutral fatty bodies he could separate
the glycerine; then from this new combination, he easily separated
the olein, the margarin, and the stearin, by employing boiling
water. But to simplify the operation, he preferred to saponify the
fat by means of lime. By this he obtained a calcareous soap, easy
to decompose by sulphuric acid, which precipitated the lime into
the state of sulphate, and liberated the fatty acids.

From these three acids-oleic, margaric, and stearic-the first,
being liquid, was driven out by a sufficient pressure. As to the
two others, they formed the very substance of which the candles
were to be molded.

This operation did not last more than four and twenty hours. The
wicks, after several trials, were made of vegetable fibers, and
dipped in the liquefied substance, they formed regular stearic
candles, molded by the hand, which only wanted whiteness and
polish. They would not doubtless have the advantages of the wicks
which are impregnated with boracic acid, and which vitrify as they
burn and are entirely consumed, but Cyrus Harding having
manufactured a beautiful pair of snuffers, these candles would be
greatly appreciated during the long evenings in Granite House.

During this month there was no want of work in the interior of
their new dwelling. The joiners had plenty to do. They improved
their tools, which were very rough, and added others also.

Scissors were made among other things, and the settlers were at
last able to cut their hair, and also to shave, or at least trim
their beards. Herbert had none, Neb but little, but their
companions were bristling in a way which justified the making of
the said scissors.

The manufacture of a hand-saw cost infinite trouble, but at last
an instrument was obtained which, when vigorously handled, could
divide the ligneous fibers of the wood. They then made tables,
seats, cupboards, to furnish the principal rooms, and bedsteads, of
which all the bedding consisted of grass mattresses. The kitchen,
with its shelves, on which rested the cooking utensils, its brick
stove, looked very well, and Neb worked away there as earnestly as
if he was in a chemist's laboratory.

But the joiners had soon to be replaced by carpenters. In fact,
the waterfall created by the explosion rendered the construction of
two bridges necessary, one on Prospect Heights, the other on the
shore. Now the plateau and the shore were transversely divided by a
watercourse, which had to be crossed to reach the northern part of
the island. To avoid it the colonists had been obliged to make a
considerable detour, by climbing up to the source of the Red Creek.
The simplest thing was to establish on the plateau, and on the
shore, two bridges from twenty to five and twenty feet in length.
All the carpenter's work that was needed was to clear some trees of
their branches: this was a business of some days. Directly the
bridges were established, Neb and Pencroft profited by them to go
to the oyster-bed which had been discovered near the downs. They
dragged with them a sort of rough cart, which replaced the former
inconvenient hurdle, and brought back some thousands of oysters,
which soon increased among the rocks and formed a bed at the mouth
of the Mercy. These molluscs were of excellent quality, and the
colonists consumed some daily.

