"That's right, that's right," returned the sailor, who was not
pleased whenever he heard his chase made light of. "You like to
make objections. Seven months ago, when we landed on the island,
you would have been only too glad to have met with such game!"

"Well, well," replied the reporter, "man is never perfect, nor
contented."

"Now," said Pencroft, "I hope that Neb will distinguish himself.
Look here! These two little peccaries are not more than three
months old! They will be as tender as quails! Come along, Neb,
come! I will look after the cooking myself."

And the sailor, followed by Neb, entered the kitchen, where they
were soon absorbed in their culinary labors.

They were allowed to do it in their own way. Neb, therefore,
prepared a magnificent repastâ€”the two little peccaries, kangaroo
soup, a smoked ham, stone-pine almonds, Oswego tea; in fact, all
the best that they had, but among all the dishes figured in the
first rank the savory peccaries.

At five o'clock dinner was served in the dining-room of Granite
House. The kangaroo soup was smoking on the table. They found it
excellent.

To the soup succeeded the peccaries, which Pencroft insisted on
carving himself, and of which he served out monstrous portions to
each of the guests.

These suckling-pigs were really delicious, and Pencroft was
devouring his share with great gusto, when all at once a cry and an
oath escaped him.

"What's the matter?" asked Cyrus Harding.

"The matter? the matter is that I have just broken a tooth!"
replied the sailor.

"What, are there pebbles in your peccaries?" said Gideon
Spilett.
