
"About seven miles," replied the engineer, "taking into
calculation, however, the detours of the river, which has carried
us to the northwest."

"Shall we go on?" asked the reporter.

"Yes, as long as we can," replied Cyrus Harding. "To-morrow, at
break of day, we will leave the canoe, and in two hours I hope we
shall cross the distance which separates us from the coast, and
then we shall have the whole day in which to explore the
shore."

"Go ahead!" replied Pencroft.

But soon the boat grated on the stony bottom of the river, which
was now not more than twenty feet in breadth. The trees met like a
bower overhead, and caused a half-darkness. They also heard the
noise of a waterfall, which showed that a few hundred feet up the
river there was a natural barrier.

Presently, after a sudden turn of the river, a cascade appeared
through the trees. The canoe again touched the bottom, and in a few
minutes it was moored to a trunk near the right bank.

It was nearly five o'clock. The last rays of the sun gleamed
through the thick foliage and glanced on the little waterfall,
making the spray sparkle with all the colors of the rainbow. Beyond
that, the Mercy was lost in the bushwood, where it was fed from
some hidden source. The different streams which flowed into it
increased it to a regular river further down, but here it was
simply a shallow, limpid brook.

It was agreed to camp here, as the place was charming. The
colonists disembarked, and a fire was soon lighted under a clump of
trees, among the branches of which Cyrus Harding and his companions
could, if it was necessary, take refuge for the night.

Supper was quickly devoured, for they were very hungry, and then
there was only sleeping to think of. But, as roarings of rather a
suspicious nature had been heard during the evening, a good fire
was made up for the night, so as to protect the sleepers with its
crackling flames. Neb and Pencroft also watched by turns, and did
not spare fuel. They thought they saw the dark forms of some wild
animals prowling round the camp among the bushes, but the night
passed without incident, and the next day, the 31st of October, at
five o'clock in the morning, all were on foot, ready for a
start.



