They both walked to the foot of the enormous wall over the
beach, far from which the tide had now retreated; but instead of
going towards the north, they went southward. Pencroft had
remarked, several hundred feet from the place at which they landed,
a narrow cutting, out of which he thought a river or stream might
issue. Now, on the one hand it was important to settle themselves
in the neighborhood of a good stream of water, and on the other it
was possible that the current had thrown Cyrus Harding on the shore
there.

The cliff, as has been said, rose to a height of three hundred
feet, but the mass was unbroken throughout, and even at its base,
scarcely washed by the sea, it did not offer the smallest fissure
which would serve as a dwelling. It was a perpendicular wall of
very hard granite, which even the waves had not worn away. Towards
the summit fluttered myriads of sea-fowl, and especially those of
the web-footed species with long, flat, pointed beaksâ€”a clamorous
tribe, bold in the presence of man, who probably for the first time
thus invaded their domains. Pencroft recognized the skua and other
gulls among them, the voracious little sea-mew, which in great
numbers nestled in the crevices of the granite. A shot fired among
this swarm would have killed a great number, but to fire a shot a
gun was needed, and neither Pencroft nor Herbert had one; besides
this, gulls and sea-mews are scarcely eatable, and even their eggs
have a detestable taste. However, Herbert, who had gone forward a
little more to the left, soon came upon rocks covered with
sea-weed, which, some hours later, would be hidden by the high
tide. On these rocks, in the midst of slippery wrack, abounded
bivalve shell-fish, not to be despised by starving people. Herbert
called Pencroft, who ran up hastily.

"Here are mussels!" cried the sailor; "these will do instead of
eggs!"

"They are not mussels," replied Herbert, who was attentively
examining the molluscs attached to the rocks; "they are
lithodomes."

"Are they good to eat?" asked Pencroft.

"Perfectly so."

"Then let us eat some lithodomes."

The sailor could rely upon Herbert; the young boy was well up in
natural history, and always had had quite a passion for the
science. His father had encouraged him in it, by letting him attend
the lectures of the best professors in Boston, who were very fond
of the intelligent, industrious lad. And his turn for natural
history was, more than once in the course of time, of great use,
and he was not mistaken in this instance. These lithodomes were
oblong shells, suspended in clusters and adhering very tightly to
the rocks. They belong to that species of molluscous perforators
which excavate holes in the hardest stone; their shell is rounded
at both ends, a feature which is not remarked in the common
mussel.

Pencroft and Herbert made a good meal of the lithodomes, which
were then half opened to the sun. They ate them as oysters, and as
they had a strong peppery taste, they were palatable without
condiments of any sort.

Their hunger was thus appeased for the time, but not their
thirst, which increased after eating these naturally-spiced
molluscs. They had then to find fresh water, and it was not likely
that it would be wanting in such a capriciously uneven region.
Pencroft and Herbert, after having taken the precaution of
collecting an ample supply of lithodomes, with which they filled
their pockets and handkerchiefs, regained the foot of the
cliff.

Two hundred paces farther they arrived at the cutting, through
which, as Pencroft had guessed, ran a stream of water, whether
fresh or not was to be ascertained. At this place the wall appeared
to have been separated by some violent subterranean force. At its
base was hollowed out a little creek, the farthest part of which
formed a tolerably sharp angle. The watercourse at that part
measured one hundred feet in breadth, and its two banks on each
side were scarcely twenty feet high. The river became strong almost
directly between the two walls of granite, which began to sink
above the mouth; it then suddenly turned and disappeared beneath a
wood of stunted trees half a mile off.
