To replace lead, of which Harding had found no traces in the
island, he employed granulated iron, which was easy to manufacture.
These bullets, not having the weight of leaden bullets, were made
larger, and each charge contained less, but the skill of the
sportsmen made up this deficiency. As to powder, Cyrus Harding
would have been able to make that also, for he had at his disposal
saltpeter, sulphur, and coal; but this preparation requires extreme
care, and without special tools it is difficult to produce it of a
good quality. Harding preferred, therefore, to manufacture
pyroxyle, that is to say gun-cotton, a substance in which cotton is
not indispensable, as the elementary tissue of vegetables may be
used, and this is found in an almost pure state, not only in
cotton, but in the textile fiber of hemp and flax, in paper, the
pith of the elder, etc. Now, the elder abounded in the island
towards the mouth of Red Creek, and the colonists had already made
coffee of the berries of these shrubs, which belong to the family
of the caprifoliaceae.

The only thing to be collected, therefore, was elder-pith, for
as to the other substance necessary for the manufacture of
pyroxyle, it was only fuming azotic acid. Now, Harding having
sulphuric acid at his disposal, had already been easily able to
produce azotic acid by attacking the saltpeter with which nature
supplied him. He accordingly resolved to manufacture and employ
pyroxyle, although it has some inconveniences, that is to say, a
great inequality of effect, an excessive inflammability, since it
takes fire at one hundred and seventy degrees instead of two
hundred and forty, and lastly, an instantaneous deflagration which
might damage the firearms. On the other hand, the advantages of
pyroxyle consist in this, that it is not injured by damp, that it
does not make the gun-barrels dirty, and that its force is four
times that of ordinary powder.

To make pyroxyle, the cotton must be immersed in the fuming
azotic acid for a quarter of an hour, then washed in cold water and
dried. Nothing could be more simple.

Cyrus Harding had only at his disposal the ordinary azotic acid
and not the fuming or monohydrate azotic acid, that is to say, acid
which emits white vapors when it comes in contact with damp air;
but by substituting for the latter ordinary azotic acid, mixed, in
the proportion of from three to five volumes of concentrated
sulphuric acid, the engineer obtained the same result. The
sportsmen of the island therefore soon had a perfectly prepared
substance, which, employed discreetly, produced admirable
results.

About this time the settlers cleared three acres of the plateau,
and the rest was preserved in a wild state, for the benefit of the
onagers. Several excursions were made into the Jacamar Wood and the
forests of the Far West, and they brought back from thence a large
collection of wild vegetables, spinach, cress, radishes, and
turnips, which careful culture would soon improve, and which would
temper the regimen on which the settlers had till then subsisted.
Supplies of wood and coal were also carted. Each excursion was at
the same time a means of improving the roads, which gradually
became smoother under the wheels of the cart.

The rabbit-warren still continued to supply the larder of
Granite House. As fortunately it was situated on the other side of
Creek Glycerine, its inhabitants could not reach the plateau nor
ravage the newly-made plantation. The oyster-bed among the rocks
was frequently renewed and furnished excellent molluscs. Besides
that, the fishing, either in the lake or the Mercy, was very
profitable, for Pencroft had made some lines, armed with iron
hooks, with which they frequently caught fine trout, and a species
of fish whose silvery sides were speckled with yellow, and which
were also extremely savory. Master Neb, who was skilled in the
culinary art, knew how to vary agreeably the bill of fare. Bread
alone was wanting at the table of the settlers, and as has been
said, they felt this privation greatly.

The settlers hunted too the turtles which frequented the shores
of Cape Mandible. At this place the beach was covered with little
mounds, concealing perfectly spherical turtles' eggs, with white
hard shells, the albumen of which does not coagulate as that of
birds' eggs. They were hatched by the sun, and their number was
naturally considerable, as each turtle can lay annually two hundred
and fifty.

"A regular egg-field," observed Gideon Spilett, "and we have
nothing to do but to pick them up."

But not being contented with simply the produce, they made chase
after the producers, the result of which was that they were able to
bring back to Granite House a dozen of these chelonians, which were
really valuable from an alimentary point of view. The turtle soup,
flavored with aromatic herbs, often gained well-merited praises for
its preparer, Neb.

We must here mention another fortunate circumstance by which new
stores for the winter were laid in. Shoals of salmon entered the
Mercy, and ascended the country for several miles. It was the time
at which the females, going to find suitable places in which to
spawn, precede the males and make a great noise through the fresh
water. A thousand of these fish, which measured about two feet and
a half in length, came up the river, and a large quantity were
retained by fixing dams across the stream. More than a hundred were
thus taken, which were salted and stored for the time when winter,
freezing up the streams, would render fishing impracticable. By
this time the intelligent Jup was raised to the duty of valet. He
had been dressed in a jacket, white linen breeches, and an apron,
the pockets of which were his delight. The clever orang had been
marvelously trained by Neb, and any one would have said that the
Negro and the ape understood each other when they talked together.
Jup had besides a real affection for Neb, and Neb returned it. When
his services were not required, either for carrying wood or for
climbing to the top of some tree, Jup passed the greatest part of
his time in the kitchen, where he endeavored to imitate Neb in all
that he saw him do. The black showed the greatest patience and even
extreme zeal in instructing his pupil, and the pupil exhibited
remarkable intelligence in profiting by the lessons he received
from his master.

Judge then of the pleasure Master Jup gave to the inhabitants of
Granite House when, without their having had any idea of it, he
appeared one day, napkin on his arm, ready to wait at table. Quick,
attentive, he acquitted himself perfectly, changing the plates,
bringing dishes, pouring out water, all with a gravity which gave
intense amusement to the settlers, and which enraptured
Pencroft.
