
"Jup, some soup!"

"Jup, a little agouti!"

"Jup, a plate!"

"Jup! Good Jup! Honest Jup!"

Nothing was heard but that, and Jup without ever being
disconcerted, replied to every one, watched for everything, and he
shook his head in a knowing way when Pencroft, referring to his
joke of the first day, said to him,â€”

"Decidedly, Jup, your wages must be doubled."

It is useless to say that the orang was now thoroughly
domesticated at Granite House, and that he often accompanied his
masters to the forest without showing any wish to leave them. It
was most amusing to see him walking with a stick which Pencroft had
given him, and which he carried on his shoulder like a gun. If they
wished to gather some fruit from the summit of a tree, how quickly
he climbed for it. If the wheel of the cart stuck in the mud, with
what energy did Jup with a single heave of his shoulder put it
right again.

"What a jolly fellow he is!" cried Pencroft often. "If he was as
mischievous as he is good, there would be no doing anything with
him!"

It was towards the end of January the colonists began their
labors in the center of the island. It had been decided that a
corral should be established near the sources of the Red Creek, at
the foot of Mount Franklin, destined to contain the ruminants,
whose presence would have been troublesome at Granite House, and
especially for the musmons, who were to supply the wool for the
settlers' winter garments.

Each morning, the colony, sometimes entire, but more often
represented only by Harding, Herbert, and Pencroft, proceeded to
the sources of the Creek, a distance of not more than five miles,
by the newly beaten road to which the name of Corral Road had been
given.

