There a site was chosen, at the back of the southern ridge of
the mountain. It was a meadow land, dotted here and there with
clumps of trees, and watered by a little stream, which sprung from
the slopes which closed it in on one side. The grass was fresh, and
it was not too much shaded by the trees which grew about it. This
meadow was to be surrounded by a palisade, high enough to prevent
even the most agile animals from leaping over. This enclosure would
be large enough to contain a hundred musmons and wild goats, with
all the young ones they might produce.

The perimeter of the corral was then traced by the engineer, and
they would then have proceeded to fell the trees necessary for the
construction of the palisade, but as the opening up of the road had
already necessitated the sacrifice of a considerable number, those
were brought and supplied a hundred stakes, which were firmly fixed
in the ground.

The construction of this corral did not take less than three
weeks, for besides the palisade, Cyrus Harding built large sheds,
in which the animals could take shelter. These buildings had also
to be made very strong, for musmons are powerful animals, and their
first fury was to be feared. The stakes, sharpened at their upper
end and hardened by fire, had been fixed by means of cross-bars,
and at regular distances props assured the solidity of the
whole.

The corral finished, a raid had to be made on the pastures
frequented by the ruminants. This was done on the 7th of February,
on a beautiful summer's day, and every one took part in it. The
onagers, already well trained, were ridden by Spilett and Herbert,
and were of great use.

The maneuver consisted simply in surrounding the musmons and
goats, and gradually narrowing the circle around them. Cyrus
Harding, Pencroft, Neb, and Jup, posted themselves in different
parts of the wood, while the two cavaliers and Top galloped in a
radius of half a mile round the corral.

The musmons were very numerous in this part of the island. These
fine animals were as large as deer; their horns were stronger than
those of the ram, and their gray-colored fleece was mixed with long
hair.

This hunting day was very fatiguing. Such going and coming, and
running and riding and shouting! Of a hundred musmons which had
been surrounded, more than two-thirds escaped, but at last, thirty
of these animals and ten wild goats were gradually driven back
towards the corral, the open door of which appearing to offer a
means of escape, they rushed in and were prisoners.

In short, the result was satisfactory, and the settlers had no
reason to complain. There was no doubt that the flock would
prosper, and that at no distant time not only wool but hides would
be abundant.

That evening the hunters returned to Granite House quite
exhausted. However, notwithstanding their fatigue, they returned
the next day to visit the corral. The prisoners had been trying to
overthrow the palisade, but of course had not succeeded, and were
not long in becoming more tranquil.

During the month of February, no event of any importance
occurred. The daily labors were pursued methodically, and, as well
as improving the roads to the corral and to Port Balloon, a third
was commenced, which, starting from the enclosure, proceeded
towards the western coast. The yet unknown portion of Lincoln
Island was that of the wood-covered Serpentine Peninsula, which
sheltered the wild beasts, from which Gideon Spilett was so anxious
to clear their domain.

Before the cold season should appear the most assiduous care was
given to the cultivation of the wild plants which had been
transplanted from the forest to Prospect Heights. Herbert never
returned from an excursion without bringing home some useful
vegetable. One day, it was some specimens of the chicory tribe, the
seeds of which by pressure yield an excellent oil; another, it was
some common sorrel, whose antiscorbutic qualities were not to be
despised; then, some of those precious tubers, which have at all
times been cultivated in South America, potatoes, of which more
than two hundred species are now known. The kitchen garden, now
well stocked and carefully defended from the birds, was divided
into small beds, where grew lettuces, kidney potatoes, sorrel,
turnips, radishes, and other coneiferae. The soil on the plateau
was particularly fertile, and it was hoped that the harvests would
be abundant.
