
It was real enjoyment to the settlers when in their room, well
lighted with candles, well warmed with coal, after a good dinner,
elderberry coffee smoking in the cups, the pipes giving forth an
odoriferous smoke, they could hear the storm howling without. Their
comfort would have been complete, if complete comfort could ever
exist for those who are far from their fellow-creatures, and
without any means of communication with them. They often talked of
their country, of the friends whom they had left, of the grandeur
of the American Republic, whose influence could not but increase;
and Cyrus Harding, who had been much mixed up with the affairs of
the Union, greatly interested his auditors by his recitals, his
views, and his prognostics.

It chanced one day that Spilett was led to sayâ€”

"But now, my dear Cyrus, all this industrial and commercial
movement to which you predict a continual advance, does it not run
the danger of being sooner or later completely stopped?"

"Stopped! And by what?"

"By the want of coal, which may justly be called the most
precious of minerals."

"Yes, the most precious indeed," replied the engineer; "and it
would seem that nature wished to prove that it was so by making the
diamond, which is simply pure carbon crystallized."

"You don't mean to say, captain," interrupted Pencroft, "that we
burn diamonds in our stoves in the shape of coal?"

"No, my friend," replied Harding.

"However," resumed Gideon Spilett, "you do not deny that some
day the coal will be entirely consumed?"

"Oh! the veins of coal are still considerable, and the hundred
thousand miners who annually extract from them a hundred millions
of hundredweights have not nearly exhausted them."

