Indeed, on the morning of the 17th, the "Bonadventure" had been
forty- eight hours at sea, and nothing showed that she was near the
island. It was impossible, besides, to estimate the distance
traversed, or to trust to the reckoning for the direction, as the
speed had been very irregular.

Twenty-four hours after there was yet no land in sight. The wind
was right ahead and the sea very heavy. The sails were
close-reefed, and they tacked frequently. On the 18th, a wave swept
completely over the "Bonadventure"; and if the crew had not taken
the precaution of lashing themselves to the deck, they would have
been carried away.

On this occasion Pencroft and his companions, who were occupied
with loosing themselves, received unexpected aid from the prisoner,
who emerged from the hatchway as if his sailor's instinct had
suddenly returned, broke a piece out of the bulwarks with a spar so
as to let the water which filled the deck escape. Then the vessel
being clear, he descended to his cabin without having uttered a
word. Pencroft, Gideon Spilett, and Herbert, greatly astonished,
let him proceed.

Their situation was truly serious, and the sailor had reason to
fear that he was lost on the wide sea without any possibility of
recovering his course.

The night was dark and cold. However, about eleven o'clock, the
wind fell, the sea went down, and the speed of the vessel, as she
labored less, greatly increased.

Neither Pencroft, Spilett, nor Herbert thought of taking an
hour's sleep. They kept a sharp look-out, for either Lincoln Island
could not be far distant and would be sighted at daybreak, or the
"Bonadventure," carried away by currents, had drifted so much that
it would be impossible to rectify her course. Pencroft, uneasy to
the last degree, yet did not despair, for he had a gallant heart,
and grasping the tiller he anxiously endeavored to pierce the
darkness which surrounded them.

About two o'clock in the morning he started forward,â€”

"A light! a light!" he shouted.

Indeed, a bright light appeared twenty miles to the northeast.
Lincoln Island was there, and this fire, evidently lighted by Cyrus
Harding, showed them the course to be followed. Pencroft, who was
bearing too much to the north, altered his course and steered
towards the fire, which burned brightly above the horizon like a
star of the first magnitude.




