


Chapter

19

&#160;


Two years already! and for two years the colonists had had no
communication with their fellow-creatures! They were without news
from the civilized world, lost on this island, as completely as if
they had been on the most minute star of the celestial
hemisphere!

What was now happening in their country? The picture of their
native land was always before their eyes, the land torn by civil
war at the time they left it, and which the Southern rebellion was
perhaps still staining with blood! It was a great sorrow to them,
and they often talked together of these things, without ever
doubting however that the cause of the North must triumph, for the
honor of the American Confederation.

During these two years not a vessel had passed in sight of the
island; or, at least, not a sail had been seen. It was evident that
Lincoln Island was out of the usual track, and also that it was
unknown,—as was besides proved by the maps,—for though there was no
port, vessels might have visited it for the purpose of renewing
their store of water. But the surrounding ocean was deserted as far
as the eye could reach, and the colonists must rely on themselves
for regaining their native land.

However, one chance of rescue existed, and this chance was
discussed one day on the first week of April, when the colonists
were gathered together in the dining-room of Granite House.

They had been talking of America, of their native country, which
they had so little hope of ever seeing again.

"Decidedly we have only one way, said Spilett, "one single way
for leaving Lincoln Island, and that is, to build a vessel large
enough to sail several hundred miles. It appears to me, that when
one has built a boat it is just as easy to build a ship!"

