Nevertheless, the colonists were well prepared to meet the
winter, however hard it might be. They had plenty of felt clothing,
and the musmons, very numerous by this time, had furnished an
abundance of wool necessary for the manufacture of this warm
material.

It is unnecessary to say that Ayrton had been provided with this
comfortable clothing. Cyrus Harding proposed that he should come to
spend the bad season with them in Granite House, where he would be
better lodged than at the corral, and Ayrton promised to do so, as
soon as the last work at the corral was finished. He did this
towards the middle of April. From that time Ayrton shared the
common life, and made himself useful on all occasions; but still
humble and sad, he never took part in the pleasures of his
companions.

For the greater part of this, the third winter which the
settlers passed in Lincoln Island, they were confined to Granite
House. There were many violent storms and frightful tempests, which
appeared to shake the rocks to their very foundations. Immense
waves threatened to overwhelm the island, and certainly any vessel
anchored near the shore would have been dashed to pieces. Twice,
during one of these hurricanes, the Mercy swelled to such a degree
as to give reason to fear that the bridges would be swept away, and
it was necessary to strengthen those on the shore, which
disappeared under the foaming waters, when the sea beat against the
beach.

It may well be supposed that such storms, comparable to
water-spouts in which were mingled rain and snow, would cause great
havoc on the plateau of Prospect Heights. The mill and the
poultry-yard particularly suffered. The colonists were often
obliged to make immediate repairs, without which the safety of the
birds would have been seriously threatened.

During the worst weather, several jaguars and troops of
quadrumana ventured to the edge of the plateau, and it was always
to be feared that the most active and audacious would, urged by
hunger, manage to cross the stream, which besides, when frozen,
offered them an easy passage. Plantations and domestic animals
would then have been infallibly destroyed, without a constant
watch, and it was often necessary to make use of the guns to keep
those dangerous visitors at a respectful distance. Occupation was
not wanting to the colonists, for without reckoning their out-door
cares, they had always a thousand plans for the fitting up of
Granite House.

They had also some fine sporting excursions, which were made
during the frost in the vast Tadorn Marsh. Gideon Spilett and
Herbert, aided by Jup and Top, did not miss a shot in the midst of
myriads of wild-duck, snipe, teal, and others. The access to these
hunting-grounds was easy; besides, whether they reached them by the
road to Port Balloon, after having passed the Mercy Bridge, or by
turning the rocks from Flotsam Point, the hunters were never
distant from Granite House more than two or three miles.

Thus passed the four winter months, which were really rigorous,
that is to say, June, July, August, and September. But, in short,
Granite House did not suffer much from the inclemency of the
weather, and it was the same with the corral, which, less exposed
than the plateau, and sheltered partly by Mount Franklin, only
received the remains of the hurricanes, already broken by the
forests and the high rocks of the shore. The damages there were
consequently of small importance, and the activity and skill of
Ayrton promptly repaired them, when some time in October he
returned to pass a few days in the corral.

During this winter, no fresh inexplicable incident occurred.
Nothing strange happened, although Pencroft and Neb were on the
watch for the most insignificant facts to which they attached any
mysterious cause. Top and Jup themselves no longer growled round
the well or gave any signs of uneasiness. It appeared, therefore,
as if the series of supernatural incidents was interrupted,
although they often talked of them during the evenings in Granite
House, and they remained thoroughly resolved that the island should
be searched, even in those parts the most difficult to explore. But
an event of the highest importance, and of which the consequences
might be terrible, momentarily diverted from their projects Cyrus
Harding and his companions.

It was the month of October. The fine season was swiftly
returning. Nature was reviving; and among the evergreen foliage of
the coniferae which formed the border of the wood, already appeared
the young leaves of the banksias, deodars, and other trees.

It may be remembered that Gideon Spilett and Herbert had, at
different times, taken photographic views of Lincoln Island.

Now, on the 17th of this month of October, towards three o'clock
in the afternoon, Herbert, enticed by the charms of the sky,
thought of reproducing Union Bay, which was opposite to Prospect
Heights, from Cape Mandible to Claw Cape.
