


Chapter

1

&#160;


It was now two years and a half since the castaways from the
balloon had been thrown on Lincoln Island, and during that period
there had been no communication between them and their
fellow-creatures. Once the reporter had attempted to communicate
with the inhabited world by confiding to a bird a letter which
contained the secret of their situation, but that was a chance on
which it was impossible to reckon seriously. Ayrton, alone, under
the circumstances which have been related, had come to join the
little colony. Now, suddenly, on this day, the 17th of October,
other men had unexpectedly appeared in sight of the island, on that
deserted sea!

There could be no doubt about it! A vessel was there! But would
she pass on, or would she put into port? In a few hours the
colonists would definitely know what to expect.

Cyrus Harding and Herbert having immediately called Gideon
Spilett, Pencroft, and Neb into the dining-room of Granite House,
told them what had happened. Pencroft, seizing the telescope,
rapidly swept the horizon, and stopping on the indicated point,
that is to say, on that which had made the almost imperceptible
spot on the photographic negative,â€”

"I'm blessed but it is really a vessel!" he exclaimed, in a
voice which did not express any great amount of satisfaction.

"Is she coming here?" asked Gideon Spilett.

"Impossible to say anything yet," answered Pencroft, "for her
rigging alone is above the horizon, and not a bit of her hull can
be seen."

