"That's impossible, for she would risk running aground and being
lost!"

"It is possible," said Ayrton. "The convicts might profit by the
high tide to enter the channel, with the risk of grounding at low
tide, it is true; but then, under the fire from her guns, our posts
would be no longer tenable."

"Confound them!" exclaimed Pencroft, "it really seems as if the
blackguards were preparing to weigh anchor."

"Perhaps we shall be obliged to take refuge in Granite House!"
observed Herbert.

"We must wait!" answered Cyrus Harding.

"But Mr. Spilett and Neb?" said Pencroft.

"They will know when it is best to rejoin us. Be ready, Ayrton.
It is yours and Spilett's rifles which must speak now."

It was only too true. The "Speedy" was beginning to weigh her
anchor, and her intention was evidently to approach the islet. The
tide would be rising for an hour and a half, and the ebb current
being already weakened, it would be easy for the brig to advance.
But as to entering the channel, Pencroft, contrary to Ayrton's
opinion, could not believe that she would dare to attempt it.

In the meanwhile, the pirates who occupied the islet had
gradually advanced to the opposite shore, and were now only
separated from the mainland by the channel.

Being armed with muskets alone, they could do no harm to the
settlers, in ambush at the Chimneys and the mouth of the Mercy;
but, not knowing the latter to be supplied with long-range rifles,
they on their side did not believe themselves to be exposed. Quite
uncovered, therefore, they surveyed the islet, and examined the
shore.

Their illusion was of short duration. Ayrton's and Gideon
Spilett's rifles then spoke, and no doubt imparted some very
disagreeable intelligence to two of the convicts, for they fell
backwards.
