


Chapter

5

&#160;


So, then, all was explained by the submarine explosion of this
torpedo. Cyrus Harding could not be mistaken, as, during the war of
the Union, he had had occasion to try these terrible engines of
destruction. It was under the action of this cylinder, charged with
some explosive substance, nitro- glycerine, picrate, or some other
material of the same nature, that the water of the channel had been
raised like a dome, the bottom of the brig crushed in, and she had
sunk instantly, the damage done to her hull being so considerable
that it was impossible to refloat her. The "Speedy" had not been
able to withstand a torpedo that would have destroyed an ironclad
as easily as a fishing-boat!

Yes! all was explained, everythingâ€”except the presence of the
torpedo in the waters of the channel!

"My friends, then," said Cyrus Harding, "we can no longer be in
doubt as to the presence of a mysterious being, a castaway like us,
perhaps, abandoned on our island, and I say this in order that
Ayrton may be acquainted with all the strange events which have
occurred during these two years. Who this beneficent stranger is,
whose intervention has, so fortunately for us, been manifested on
many occasions, I cannot imagine. What his object can be in acting
thus, in concealing himself after rendering us so many services, I
cannot understand: But his services are not the less real, and are
of such a nature that only a man possessed of prodigious power,
could render them. Ayrton is indebted to him as much as we are,
for, if it was the stranger who saved me from the waves after the
fall from the balloon, evidently it was he who wrote the document,
who placed the bottle in the channel, and who has made known to us
the situation of our companion. I will add that it was he who
guided that chest, provided with everything we wanted, and stranded
it on Flotsam Point; that it was he who lighted that fire on the
heights of the island, which permitted you to land; that it was he
who fired that bullet found in the body of the peccary; that it was
he who plunged that torpedo into the channel, which destroyed the
brig; in a word, that all those inexplicable events, for which we
could not assign a reason, are due to this mysterious being.
Therefore, whoever he may be, whether shipwrecked, or exiled on our
island, we shall be ungrateful, if we think ourselves freed from
gratitude towards him. We have contracted a debt, and I hope that
we shall one day pay it."

"You are right in speaking thus, my dear Cyrus," replied Gideon
Spilett. "Yes, there is an almost all-powerful being, hidden in
some part of the island, and whose influence has been singularly
useful to our colony. I will add that the unknown appears to
possess means of action which border on the supernatural, if in the
events of practical life the supernatural were recognizable. Is it
he who is in secret communication with us by the well in Granite
House, and has he thus a knowledge of all our plans? Was it he who
threw us that bottle, when the vessel made her first cruise? Was it
he who threw Top out of the lake, and killed the dugong? Was it he,
who as everything leads us to believe, saved you from the waves,
and that under circumstances in which any one else would not have
been able to act? If it was he, he possesses a power which renders
him master of the elements."

The reporter's reasoning was just, and every one felt it to be
so.

"Yes," rejoined Cyrus Harding, "if the intervention of a human
being is not more questionable for us, I agree that he has at his
disposal means of action beyond those possessed by humanity. There
is a mystery still, but if we discover the man, the mystery will be
discovered also. The question, then, is, ought we to respect the
incognito of this generous being, or ought we to do everything to
find him out? What is your opinion on the matter?"

