


Chapter

6

&#160;


However, the chief business of the colonists was to make that
complete exploration of the island which had been decided upon, and
which would have two objects: to discover the mysterious being
whose existence was now indisputable, and at the same time to find
out what had become of the pirates, what retreat they had chosen,
what sort of life they were leading, and what was to be feared from
them. Cyrus Harding wished to set out without delay; but as the
expedition would be of some days duration, it appeared best to load
the cart with different materials and tools in order to facilitate
the organization of the encampments. One of the onagers, however,
having hurt its leg, could not be harnessed at present, and a few
days' rest was necessary. The departure was, therefore, put off for
a week, until the 20th of November. The month of November in this
latitude corresponds to the month of May in the northern zones. It
was, therefore, the fine season. The sun was entering the tropic of
Capricorn, and gave the longest days in the year. The time was,
therefore, very favorable for the projected expedition, which, if
it did not accomplish its principal object, would at any rate be
fruitful in discoveries, especially of natural productions, since
Harding proposed to explore those dense forests of the Far West,
which stretched to the extremity of the Serpentine Peninsula.

During the nine days which preceded their departure, it was
agreed that the work on Prospect Heights should be finished
off.

Moreover, it was necessary for Ayrton to return to the corral,
where the domesticated animals required his care. It was decided
that he should spend two days there, and return to Granite House
after having liberally supplied the stables.

As he was about to start, Harding asked him if he would not like
one of them to accompany him, observing that the island was less
safe than formerly. Ayrton replied that this was unnecessary, as he
was enough for the work, and that besides he apprehended no danger.
If anything occurred at the corral, or in the neighborhood, he
could instantly warn the colonists by sending a telegram to Granite
House.

Ayrton departed at dawn on the 9th, taking the cart drawn by one
onager, and two hours after, the electric wire announced that he
had found all in order at the corral.

During these two days Harding busied himself in executing a
project which would completely guard Granite House against any
surprise. It was necessary to completely conceal the opening of the
old outlet, which was already walled up and partly hidden under
grass and plants, at the southern angle of Lake Grant. Nothing was
easier, since if the level of the lake was raised two or three
feet, the opening would be quite beneath it. Now, to raise this
level they had only to establish a dam at the two openings made by
the lake, and by which were fed Creek Glycerine and Falls
River.

