
"No," said Spilett more than once, "I have never thought of such
a contingency without shuddering!"

"And yet, if it had been necessary to operate," said Harding one
day to him, "you would not have hesitated?"

"No, Cyrus!" said Gideon Spilett, "but thank God that we have
been spared this complication!"

As in so many other conjectures, the colonists had appealed to
the logic of that simple good sense of which they had made use so
often, and once more, thanks to their general knowledge, it had
succeeded! But might not a time come when all their science would
be at fault? They were alone on the island. Now, men in all states
of society are necessary to each other. Cyrus Harding knew this
well, and sometimes he asked if some circumstance might not occur
which they would be powerless to surmount. It appeared to him
besides, that he and his companions, till then so fortunate, had
entered into an unlucky period. During the two years and a half
which had elapsed since their escape from Richmond, it might be
said that they had had everything their own way. The island had
abundantly supplied them with minerals, vegetables, animals, and as
Nature had constantly loaded them, their science had known how to
take advantage of what she offered them.

The wellbeing of the colony was therefore complete. Moreover, in
certain occurrences an inexplicable influence had come to their
aid!â€¦ But all that could only be for a time.

In short, Cyrus Harding believed that fortune had turned against
them.

In fact, the convicts' ship had appeared in the waters of the
island, and if the pirates had been, so to speak, miraculously
destroyed, six of them, at least, had escaped the catastrophe. They
had disembarked on the island, and it was almost impossible to get
at the five who survived. Ayrton had no doubt been murdered by
these wretches, who possessed firearms, and at the first use that
they had made of them, Herbert had fallen, wounded almost mortally.
Were these the first blows aimed by adverse fortune at the
colonists? This was often asked by Harding. This was often repeated
by the reporter; and it appeared to him also that the intervention,
so strange, yet so efficacious, which till then had served them so
well, had now failed them. Had this mysterious being, whatever he
was, whose existence could not be denied, abandoned the island? Had
he in his turn succumbed?

No reply was possible to these questions. But it must not be
imagined that because Harding and his companions spoke of these
things, they were men to despair. Far from that. They looked their
situation in the face, they analyzed the chances, they prepared
themselves for any event, they stood firm and straight before the
future, and if adversity was at last to strike them, it would find
in them men prepared to struggle against it.




