
Gideon Spilett and Pencroft listened.

Not a sound could be heard inside the palisade. The musmons and
the goats, sleeping no doubt in their huts, in no way disturbed the
calm of night.

The reporter and the sailor hearing nothing, asked themselves
whether they had not better scale the palisades and penetrate into
the corral. This would have been contrary to Cyrus Harding's
instructions.

It is true that the enterprise might succeed, but it might also
fail. Now, if the convicts were suspecting nothing, if they knew
nothing of the expedition against them, if, lastly, there now
existed a chance of surprising them, ought this chance to be lost
by inconsiderately attempting to cross the palisades?

This was not the reporter's opinion. He thought it better to
wait until all the settlers were collected together before
attempting to penetrate into the corral. One thing was certain,
that it was possible to reach the palisade without being seen, and
also that it did not appear to be guarded. This point settled,
there was nothing to be done but to return to the cart, where they
would consult.

Pencroft probably agreed with this decision, for he followed the
reporter without making any objection when the latter turned back
to the wood.

In a few minutes the engineer was made acquainted with the state
of affairs.

"Well," said he, after a little thought, "I now have reason to
believe that the convicts are not in the corral."

"We shall soon know," said Pencroft, "when we have scaled the
palisade."

"To the corral, my friends!" said Cyrus Harding.

