
The month of April was tolerably fine, as October often is in
the northern zone. At the same time other work was actively
continued, and soon all trace of devastation disappeared from the
plateau of Prospect Heights. The mill was rebuilt, and new
buildings rose in the poultry-yard. It had appeared necessary to
enlarge their dimensions, for the feathered population had
increased considerably. The stable now contained five onagers, four
of which were well broken, and allowed themselves to be either
driven or ridden, and a little colt. The colony now possessed a
plow, to which the onagers were yoked like regular Yorkshire or
Kentucky oxen. The colonists divided their work, and their arms
never tired. Then who could have enjoyed better health than these
workers, and what good humor enlivened the evenings in Granite
House as they formed a thousand plans for the future!

As a matter of course Ayrton shared the common lot in every
respect, and there was no longer any talk of his going to live at
the corral. Nevertheless he was still sad and reserved, and joined
more in the work than in the pleasures of his companions. But he
was a valuable workman at need—strong, skilful, ingenious,
intelligent. He was esteemed and loved by all, and he could not be
ignorant of it.

In the meanwhile the corral was not abandoned. Every other day
one of the settlers, driving the cart or mounted on an onager, went
to look after the flock of musmons and goats and bring back the
supply of milk required by Neb. These excursions at the same time
afforded opportunities for hunting. Therefore Herbert and Gideon
Spilett, with Top in front, traversed more often than their
companions the road to the corral, and with the capital guns which
they carried, capybaras, agouties, kangaroos, and wild pigs for
large game, ducks, grouse, jacamars, and snipe for small game, were
never wanting in the house. The produce of the warren, of the
oyster-bed, several turtles which were taken, excellent salmon
which came up the Mercy, vegetables from the plateau, wild fruit
from the forest, were riches upon riches, and Neb, the head cook,
could scarcely by himself store them away.

The telegraphic wire between the corral and Granite House had of
course been repaired, and it was worked whenever one or other of
the settlers was at the corral and found it necessary to spend the
night there. Besides, the island was safe now and no attacks were
to be feared, at any rate from men.

However, that which had happened might happen again. A descent
of pirates, or even of escaped convicts, was always to be feared.
It was possible that companions or accomplices of Bob Harvey had
been in the secret of his plans, and might be tempted to imitate
him. The colonists, therefore, were careful to observe the sea
around the island, and every day their telescope covered the
horizon enclosed by Union and Washington Bays. when they went to
the corral they examined the sea to the west with no less
attention, and by climbing the spur their gaze extended over a
large section of the western horizon.

Nothing suspicious was discerned, but still it was necessary for
them to be on their guard.

The engineer one evening imparted to his friends a plan which he
had conceived for fortifying the corral. It appeared prudent to him
to heighten the palisade and to flank it with a sort of blockhouse,
which, if necessary, the settlers could hold against the enemy.
Granite House might, by its very position, be considered
impregnable; therefore the corral with its buildings, its stores,
and the animals it contained, would always be the object of
pirates, whoever they were, who might land on the island, and
should the colonists be obliged to shut themselves up there they
ought also to be able to defend themselves without any
disadvantage. This was a project which might be left for
consideration, and they were, besides, obliged to put off its
execution until the next spring.

About the 15th of May the keel of the new vessel lay along the
dockyard, and soon the stem and stern-post, mortised at each of its
extremities, rose almost perpendicularly. The keel, of good oak,
measured 110 feet in length, this allowing a width of
five-and-twenty feet to the midship beam. But this was all the
carpenters could do before the arrival of the frosts and bad
weather. During the following week they fixed the first of the
stern timbers, but were then obliged to suspend work.

During the last days of the month the weather was extremely bad.
The wind blew from the east, sometimes with the violence of a
tempest. The engineer was somewhat uneasy on account of the
dockyard shed—which besides, he could not have established in any
other place near to Granite House—for the islet only imperfectly
sheltered the shore from the fury of the open sea, and in great
storms the waves beat against the very foot of the granite
cliff.

But, very fortunately, these fears were not realized. The wind
shifted to the southeast, and there the beach of Granite House was
completely covered by Flotsam Point.

