Pencroft and Ayrton, the most zealous workmen at the new vessel,
pursued their labor as long as they could. They were not men to
mind the wind tearing at their hair, nor the rain wetting them to
the skin, and a blow from a hammer is worth just as much in bad as
in fine weather. But when a severe frost succeeded this wet period,
the wood, its fibers acquiring the hardness of iron, became
extremely difficult to work, and about the 10th of June
shipbuilding was obliged to be entirely discontinued.

Cyrus Harding and his companions had not omitted to observe how
severe was the temperature during the winters of Lincoln Island.
The cold was comparable to that experienced in the States of New
England, situated at almost the same distance from the equator. In
the northern hemisphere, or at any rate in the part occupied by
British America and the north of the United States, this phenomenon
is explained by the flat conformation of the territories bordering
on the pole, and on which there is no intumescence of the soil to
oppose any obstacle to the north winds; here, in Lincoln Island,
this explanation would not suffice.

"It has even been observed," remarked Harding one day to his
companions, "that in equal latitudes the islands and coast regions
are less tried by the cold than inland countries. I have often
heard it asserted that the winters of Lombardy, for example, are
not less rigorous than those of Scotland, which results from the
sea restoring during the winter the heat which it received during
the summer. Islands are, therefore, in a better situation for
benefiting by this restitution."

"But then, Captain Harding," asked Herbert, "why does Lincoln
Island appear to escape the common law?"

"That is difficult to explain," answered the engineer. "However,
I should be disposed to conjecture that this peculiarity results
from the situation of the island in the Southern Hemisphere, which,
as you know, my boy, is colder than the Northern Hemisphere."

"Yes," said Herbert, "and icebergs are met with in lower
latitudes in the south than in the north of the Pacific."

"That is true," remarked Pencroft, "and when I have been serving
on board whalers I have seen icebergs off Cape Horn."

"The severe cold experienced in Lincoln Island," said Gideon
Spilett, "may then perhaps be explained by the presence of floes or
icebergs comparatively near to Lincoln Island."

"Your opinion is very admissible indeed, my dear Spilett,"
answered Cyrus Harding, "and it is evidently to the proximity of
icebergs that we owe our rigorous winters. I would draw your
attention also to an entirely physical cause, which renders the
Southern colder than the Northern Hemisphere. In fact, since the
sun is nearer to this hemisphere during the summer, it is
necessarily more distant during the winter. This explains then the
excess of temperature in the two seasons, for, if we find the
winters very cold in Lincoln Island, we must not forget that the
summers here, on the contrary, are very hot."

"But why, if you please, captain," asked Pencroft, knitting his
brows, "why should our hemisphere, as you say, be so badly divided?
It isn't just, that!"

"Friend Pencroft," answered the engineer, laughing, "whether
just or not, we must submit to it, and here lies the reason for
this peculiarity. The earth does not describe a circle around the
sun, but an ellipse, as it must by the laws of rational mechanics.
Now, the earth occupies one of the foci of the ellipse, and so at
one point in its course is at its apogee, that is, at its farthest
from the sun, and at another point it is at its perigee, or nearest
to the sun. Now it happens that it is during the winter of the
southern countries that it is at its most distant point from the
sun, and consequently, in a situation for those regions to feel the
greatest cold. Nothing can be done to prevent that, and men,
Pencroft, however learned they may be, can never change anything of
the cosmographical order established by God Himself."
