"As for that," said Pencroft, "when one has four hands at one's
service, of course one's work ought to be done so much the
better!"

And indeed the intelligent creature did it well.

During the seven months which had passed since the last
researches made round the mountain, and during the month of
September, which brought back fine weather, nothing was heard of
the genius of the island. His power was not manifested in any way.
It is true that it would have been superfluous, for no incident
occurred to put the colonists to any painful trial.

Cyrus Harding even observed that if by chance the communication
between the unknown and the tenants of Granite House had ever been
established through the granite, and if Top's instinct had as it
were felt it, there was no further sign of it during this period.
The dog's growling had entirely ceased, as well as the uneasiness
of the orang. The two friends— for they were such—no longer prowled
round the opening of the inner well, nor did they bark or whine in
that singular way which from the first the engineer had noticed.
But could he be sure that this was all that was to be said about
this enigma, and that he should never arrive at a solution? Could
he be certain that some conjuncture would not occur which would
bring the mysterious personage on the scene? who could tell what
the future might have in reserve?

At last the winter was ended, but an event, the consequences of
which might be serious occurred in the first days of the returning
spring.

On the 7th of September, Cyrus Harding, having observed the
crater, saw smoke curling round the summit of the mountain, its
first vapors rising in the air.




