Cyrus Harding considered. He knew very little. The wave had torn
him from the balloon net. He sank at first several fathoms. On
returning to the surface, in the half light, he felt a living
creature struggling near him. It was Top, who had sprung to his
help. He saw nothing of the balloon, which, lightened both of his
weight and that of the dog, had darted away like an arrow.

There he was, in the midst of the angry sea, at a distance which
could not be less than half a mile from the shore. He attempted to
struggle against the billows by swimming vigorously. Top held him
up by his clothes; but a strong current seized him and drove him
towards the north, and after half an hour of exertion, he sank,
dragging Top with him into the depths. From that moment to the
moment in which he recovered to find himself in the arms of his
friends he remembered nothing.

"However," remarked Pencroft, "you must have been thrown on to
the beach, and you must have had strength to walk here, since Neb
found your footmarks!"

"Yes… of course replied the engineer, thoughtfully; "and you
found no traces of human beings on this coast?"

"Not a trace," replied the reporter; "besides, if by chance you
had met with some deliverer there, just in the nick of time, why
should he have abandoned you after having saved you from the
waves?"

"You are right, my dear Spilett. Tell me, Neb," added the
engineer, turning to his servant, "it was not you who… you can't
have had a moment of unconsciousness… during which no, that's
absurd… . Do any of the footsteps still remain?" asked Harding.

"Yes, master, replied Neb; "here, at the entrance, at the back
of the mound, in a place sheltered from the rain and wind. The
storm has destroyed the others."

"Pencroft," said Cyrus Harding, "will you take my shoe and see
if it fits exactly to the footprints?"

The sailor did as the engineer requested. While he and Herbert,
guided by Neb, went to the place where the footprints were to be
found, Cyrus remarked to the reporter,—

"It is a most extraordinary thing!"

"Perfectly inexplicable!" replied Gideon Spilett.
