


Chapter

5
Tom as a patrician


Tom Canty, left alone in the prince's cabinet, made good use of
his opportunity. &#160;He turned himself this way and that before
the great mirror, admiring his finery; then walked away, imitating
the prince's high-bred carriage, and still observing results in the
glass. &#160;Next he drew the beautiful sword, and bowed, kissing
the blade, and laying it across his breast, as he had seen a noble
knight do, by way of salute to the lieutenant of the Tower, five or
six weeks before, when delivering the great lords of Norfolk and
Surrey into his hands for captivity. &#160;Tom played with the
jewelled dagger that hung upon his thigh; he examined the costly
and exquisite ornaments of the room; he tried each of the sumptuous
chairs, and thought how proud he would be if the Offal Court herd
could only peep in and see him in his grandeur. &#160;He wondered
if they would believe the marvellous tale he should tell when he
got home, or if they would shake their heads, and say his overtaxed
imagination had at last upset his reason.

At the end of half an hour it suddenly occurred to him that the
prince was gone a long time; then right away he began to feel
lonely; very soon he fell to listening and longing, and ceased to
toy with the pretty things about him; he grew uneasy, then
restless, then distressed. Suppose some one should come, and catch
him in the prince's clothes, and the prince not there to explain.
&#160;Might they not hang him at once, and inquire into his case
afterward? &#160;He had heard that the great were prompt about
small matters. &#160;His fear rose higher and higher; and trembling
he softly opened the door to the antechamber, resolved to fly and
seek the prince, and, through him, protection and release.
&#160;Six gorgeous gentlemen-servants and two young pages of high
degree, clothed like butterflies, sprang to their feet and bowed
low before him. &#160;He stepped quickly back and shut the door.
&#160;He said—

"Oh, they mock at me! &#160;They will go and tell. &#160;Oh! why
came I here to cast away my life?"

He walked up and down the floor, filled with nameless fears,
listening, starting at every trifling sound. &#160;Presently the
door swung open, and a silken page said—

"The Lady Jane Grey."

The door closed and a sweet young girl, richly clad, bounded
toward him. But she stopped suddenly, and said in a distressed
voice—

"Oh, what aileth thee, my lord?"
