
"Now," said Canty, "to bed, all of ye. &#160;The entertainment
has tired me."

The light was put out, and the family retired. &#160;As soon as
the snorings of the head of the house and his mother showed that
they were asleep, the young girls crept to where the Prince lay,
and covered him tenderly from the cold with straw and rags; and
their mother crept to him also, and stroked his hair, and cried
over him, whispering broken words of comfort and compassion in his
ear the while. &#160;She had saved a morsel for him to eat, also;
but the boy's pains had swept away all appetite—at least for black
and tasteless crusts. &#160;He was touched by her brave and costly
defence of him, and by her commiseration; and he thanked her in
very noble and princely words, and begged her to go to her sleep
and try to forget her sorrows. &#160;And he added that the King his
father would not let her loyal kindness and devotion go unrewarded.
&#160;This return to his 'madness' broke her heart anew, and she
strained him to her breast again and again, and then went back,
drowned in tears, to her bed.

As she lay thinking and mourning, the suggestion began to creep
into her mind that there was an undefinable something about this
boy that was lacking in Tom Canty, mad or sane. &#160;She could not
describe it, she could not tell just what it was, and yet her sharp
mother-instinct seemed to detect it and perceive it. &#160;What if
the boy were really not her son, after all? &#160;Oh, absurd!
&#160;She almost smiled at the idea, spite of her griefs and
troubles. &#160;No matter, she found that it was an idea that would
not 'down,' but persisted in haunting her. &#160;It pursued her, it
harassed her, it clung to her, and refused to be put away or
ignored. &#160;At last she perceived that there was not going to be
any peace for her until she should devise a test that should prove,
clearly and without question, whether this lad was her son or not,
and so banish these wearing and worrying doubts. &#160;Ah, yes,
this was plainly the right way out of the difficulty; therefore she
set her wits to work at once to contrive that test. &#160;But it
was an easier thing to propose than to accomplish. &#160;She turned
over in her mind one promising test after another, but was obliged
to relinquish them all—none of them were absolutely sure,
absolutely perfect; and an imperfect one could not satisfy her.
&#160;Evidently she was racking her head in vain—it seemed manifest
that she must give the matter up. &#160;While this depressing
thought was passing through her mind, her ear caught the regular
breathing of the boy, and she knew he had fallen asleep. &#160;And
while she listened, the measured breathing was broken by a soft,
startled cry, such as one utters in a troubled dream. &#160;This
chance occurrence furnished her instantly with a plan worth all her
laboured tests combined. &#160;She at once set herself feverishly,
but noiselessly, to work to relight her candle, muttering to
herself, "Had I but seen him THEN, I should have known! &#160;Since
that day, when he was little, that the powder burst in his face, he
hath never been startled of a sudden out of his dreams or out of
his thinkings, but he hath cast his hand before his eyes, even as
he did that day; and not as others would do it, with the palm
inward, but always with the palm turned outward—I have seen it a
hundred times, and it hath never varied nor ever failed. &#160;Yes,
I shall soon know, now!"

By this time she had crept to the slumbering boy's side, with
the candle, shaded, in her hand. &#160;She bent heedfully and
warily over him, scarcely breathing in her suppressed excitement,
and suddenly flashed the light in his face and struck the floor by
his ear with her knuckles. &#160;The sleeper's eyes sprang wide
open, and he cast a startled stare about him—but he made no special
movement with his hands.

The poor woman was smitten almost helpless with surprise and
grief; but she contrived to hide her emotions, and to soothe the
boy to sleep again; then she crept apart and communed miserably
with herself upon the disastrous result of her experiment.
&#160;She tried to believe that her Tom's madness had banished this
habitual gesture of his; but she could not do it. &#160;"No," she
said, "his HANDS are not mad; they could not unlearn so old a habit
in so brief a time. &#160;Oh, this is a heavy day for me!"

Still, hope was as stubborn now as doubt had been before; she
could not bring herself to accept the verdict of the test; she must
try the thing again—the failure must have been only an accident; so
she startled the boy out of his sleep a second and a third time, at
intervals—with the same result which had marked the first test;
then she dragged herself to bed, and fell sorrowfully asleep,
saying, "But I cannot give him up—oh no, I cannot, I cannot—he MUST
be my boy!"

The poor mother's interruptions having ceased, and the Prince's
pains having gradually lost their power to disturb him, utter
weariness at last sealed his eyes in a profound and restful sleep.
Hour after hour slipped away, and still he slept like the dead.
Thus four or five hours passed. Then his stupor began to lighten.
Presently, while half asleep and half awake, he murmured—

"Sir William!"

After a moment—

"Ho, Sir William Herbert! &#160;Hie thee hither, and list to the
strangest dream that ever&#160;… Sir William! dost hear? &#160;Man,
I did think me changed to a pauper, and&#160;… Ho there!
&#160;Guards! Sir William! &#160;What! is there no groom of the
chamber in waiting? Alack! it shall go hard with—"

