While the King ate, the rigour of his royal dignity relaxed a
little, and with his growing contentment came a desire to talk. He
said—"I think thou callest thyself Miles Hendon, if I heard thee
aright?"

"Yes, Sire," Miles replied; then observed to himself, "If I MUST
humour the poor lad's madness, I must 'Sire' him, I must 'Majesty'
him, I must not go by halves, I must stick at nothing that
belongeth to the part I play, else shall I play it ill and work
evil to this charitable and kindly cause."

The King warmed his heart with a second glass of wine, and
said—"I would know thee—tell me thy story. &#160;Thou hast a
gallant way with thee, and a noble—art nobly born?"

"We are of the tail of the nobility, good your Majesty. &#160;My
father is a baronet—one of the smaller lords by knight service—Sir
Richard Hendon of Hendon Hall, by Monk's Holm in Kent."

"The name has escaped my memory. &#160;Go on—tell me thy
story."

"'Tis not much, your Majesty, yet perchance it may beguile a
short half-hour for want of a better. &#160;My father, Sir Richard,
is very rich, and of a most generous nature. &#160;My mother died
whilst I was yet a boy. &#160;I have two brothers: &#160;Arthur, my
elder, with a soul like to his father's; and Hugh, younger than I,
a mean spirit, covetous, treacherous, vicious, underhanded—a
reptile. &#160;Such was he from the cradle; such was he ten years
past, when I last saw him—a ripe rascal at nineteen, I being twenty
then, and Arthur twenty-two. &#160;There is none other of us but
the Lady Edith, my cousin—she was sixteen then—beautiful, gentle,
good, the daughter of an earl, the last of her race, heiress of a
great fortune and a lapsed title. &#160;My father was her guardian.
&#160;I loved her and she loved me; but she was betrothed to Arthur
from the cradle, and Sir Richard would not suffer the contract to
be broken. &#160;Arthur loved another maid, and bade us be of good
cheer and hold fast to the hope that delay and luck together would
some day give success to our several causes. &#160;Hugh loved the
Lady Edith's fortune, though in truth he said it was herself he
loved—but then 'twas his way, alway, to say the one thing and mean
the other. &#160;But he lost his arts upon the girl; he could
deceive my father, but none else. &#160;My father loved him best of
us all, and trusted and believed him; for he was the youngest
child, and others hated him—these qualities being in all ages
sufficient to win a parent's dearest love; and he had a smooth
persuasive tongue, with an admirable gift of lying—and these be
qualities which do mightily assist a blind affection to cozen
itself. &#160;I was wild—in troth I might go yet farther and say
VERY wild, though 'twas a wildness of an innocent sort, since it
hurt none but me, brought shame to none, nor loss, nor had in it
any taint of crime or baseness, or what might not beseem mine
honourable degree.

"Yet did my brother Hugh turn these faults to good account—he
seeing that our brother Arthur's health was but indifferent, and
hoping the worst might work him profit were I swept out of the
path—so—but 'twere a long tale, good my liege, and little worth the
telling. &#160;Briefly, then, this brother did deftly magnify my
faults and make them crimes; ending his base work with finding a
silken ladder in mine apartments—conveyed thither by his own
means—and did convince my father by this, and suborned evidence of
servants and other lying knaves, that I was minded to carry off my
Edith and marry with her in rank defiance of his will.

"Three years of banishment from home and England might make a
soldier and a man of me, my father said, and teach me some degree
of wisdom. &#160;I fought out my long probation in the continental
wars, tasting sumptuously of hard knocks, privation, and adventure;
but in my last battle I was taken captive, and during the seven
years that have waxed and waned since then, a foreign dungeon hath
harboured me. &#160;Through wit and courage I won to the free air
at last, and fled hither straight; and am but just arrived, right
poor in purse and raiment, and poorer still in knowledge of what
these dull seven years have wrought at Hendon Hall, its people and
belongings. &#160;So please you, sir, my meagre tale is told."

"Thou hast been shamefully abused!" said the little King, with a
flashing eye. &#160;"But I will right thee—by the cross will I!
&#160;The King hath said it."

Then, fired by the story of Miles's wrongs, he loosed his tongue
and poured the history of his own recent misfortunes into the ears
of his astonished listener. &#160;When he had finished, Miles said
to himself—

"Lo, what an imagination he hath! &#160;Verily, this is no
common mind; else, crazed or sane, it could not weave so straight
and gaudy a tale as this out of the airy nothings wherewith it hath
wrought this curious romaunt. Poor ruined little head, it shall not
lack friend or shelter whilst I bide with the living. &#160;He
shall never leave my side; he shall be my pet, my little comrade.
&#160;And he shall be cured!—ay, made whole and sound—then will he
make himself a name—and proud shall I be to say, 'Yes, he is mine—I
took him, a homeless little ragamuffin, but I saw what was in him,
and I said his name would be heard some day—behold him, observe
him—was I right?'"
