


Chapter

16
The State Dinner


The dinner hour drew near—yet strangely enough, the thought
brought but slight discomfort to Tom, and hardly any terror.
&#160;The morning's experiences had wonderfully built up his
confidence; the poor little ash-cat was already more wonted to his
strange garret, after four days' habit, than a mature person could
have become in a full month. &#160;A child's facility in
accommodating itself to circumstances was never more strikingly
illustrated.

Let us privileged ones hurry to the great banqueting-room and
have a glance at matters there whilst Tom is being made ready for
the imposing occasion. &#160;It is a spacious apartment, with
gilded pillars and pilasters, and pictured walls and ceilings.
&#160;At the door stand tall guards, as rigid as statues, dressed
in rich and picturesque costumes, and bearing halberds. &#160;In a
high gallery which runs all around the place is a band of musicians
and a packed company of citizens of both sexes, in brilliant
attire. &#160;In the centre of the room, upon a raised platform, is
Tom's table. Now let the ancient chronicler speak:

"A gentleman enters the room bearing a rod, and along with him
another bearing a tablecloth, which, after they have both kneeled
three times with the utmost veneration, he spreads upon the table,
and after kneeling again they both retire; then come two others,
one with the rod again, the other with a salt-cellar, a plate, and
bread; when they have kneeled as the others had done, and placed
what was brought upon the table, they too retire with the same
ceremonies performed by the first; at last come two nobles, richly
clothed, one bearing a tasting-knife, who, after prostrating
themselves three times in the most graceful manner, approach and
rub the table with bread and salt, with as much awe as if the King
had been present."

So end the solemn preliminaries. &#160;Now, far down the echoing
corridors we hear a bugle-blast, and the indistinct cry, "Place for
the King! &#160;Way for the King's most excellent majesty!"
&#160;These sounds are momently repeated—they grow nearer and
nearer—and presently, almost in our faces, the martial note peals
and the cry rings out, "Way for the King!" &#160;At this instant
the shining pageant appears, and files in at the door, with a
measured march. Let the chronicler speak again:—

"First come Gentlemen, Barons, Earls, Knights of the Garter, all
richly dressed and bareheaded; next comes the Chancellor, between
two, one of which carries the royal sceptre, the other the Sword of
State in a red scabbard, studded with golden fleurs-de-lis, the
point upwards; next comes the King himself—whom, upon his
appearing, twelve trumpets and many drums salute with a great burst
of welcome, whilst all in the galleries rise in their places,
crying 'God save the King!' &#160;After him come nobles attached to
his person, and on his right and left march his guard of honour,
his fifty Gentlemen Pensioners, with gilt battle-axes."

This was all fine and pleasant. &#160;Tom's pulse beat high, and
a glad light was in his eye. &#160;He bore himself right
gracefully, and all the more so because he was not thinking of how
he was doing it, his mind being charmed and occupied with the
blithe sights and sounds about him—and besides, nobody can be very
ungraceful in nicely-fitting beautiful clothes after he has grown a
little used to them—especially if he is for the moment unconscious
of them. Tom remembered his instructions, and acknowledged his
greeting with a slight inclination of his plumed head, and a
courteous "I thank ye, my good people."

He seated himself at table, without removing his cap; and did it
without the least embarrassment; for to eat with one's cap on was
the one solitary royal custom upon which the kings and the Cantys
met upon common ground, neither party having any advantage over the
other in the matter of old familiarity with it. &#160;The pageant
broke up and grouped itself picturesquely, and remained
bareheaded.
