


Chapter

17
Foo-foo the First


Miles Hendon hurried along toward the Southwark end of the
bridge, keeping a sharp look-out for the persons he sought, and
hoping and expecting to overtake them presently. &#160;He was
disappointed in this, however. &#160;By asking questions, he was
enabled to track them part of the way through Southwark; then all
traces ceased, and he was perplexed as to how to proceed.
&#160;Still, he continued his efforts as best he could during the
rest of the day. &#160;Nightfall found him leg-weary,
half-famished, and his desire as far from accomplishment as ever;
so he supped at the Tabard Inn and went to bed, resolved to make an
early start in the morning, and give the town an exhaustive search.
&#160;As he lay thinking and planning, he presently began to reason
thus: &#160;The boy would escape from the ruffian, his reputed
father, if possible; would he go back to London and seek his former
haunts? &#160;No, he would not do that, he would avoid recapture.
What, then, would he do? &#160;Never having had a friend in the
world, or a protector, until he met Miles Hendon, he would
naturally try to find that friend again, provided the effort did
not require him to go toward London and danger. &#160;He would
strike for Hendon Hall, that is what he would do, for he knew
Hendon was homeward bound and there he might expect to find him.
&#160;Yes, the case was plain to Hendon—he must lose no more time
in Southwark, but move at once through Kent, toward Monk's Holm,
searching the wood and inquiring as he went. &#160;Let us return to
the vanished little King now.

The ruffian whom the waiter at the inn on the bridge saw 'about
to join' the youth and the King did not exactly join them, but fell
in close behind them and followed their steps. &#160;He said
nothing. His left arm was in a sling, and he wore a large green
patch over his left eye; he limped slightly, and used an oaken
staff as a support. &#160;The youth led the King a crooked course
through Southwark, and by-and-by struck into the high road beyond.
&#160;The King was irritated, now, and said he would stop here—it
was Hendon's place to come to him, not his to go to Hendon.
&#160;He would not endure such insolence; he would stop where he
was. &#160;The youth said—

"Thou'lt tarry here, and thy friend lying wounded in the wood
yonder? &#160;So be it, then."

The King's manner changed at once. &#160;He cried out—

"Wounded? &#160;And who hath dared to do it? &#160;But that is
apart; lead on, lead on! &#160;Faster, sirrah! &#160;Art shod with
lead? &#160;Wounded, is he? &#160;Now though the doer of it be a
duke's son he shall rue it!"

It was some distance to the wood, but the space was speedily
traversed. The youth looked about him, discovered a bough sticking
in the ground, with a small bit of rag tied to it, then led the way
into the forest, watching for similar boughs and finding them at
intervals; they were evidently guides to the point he was aiming
at. &#160;By-and-by an open place was reached, where were the
charred remains of a farm-house, and near them a barn which was
falling to ruin and decay. &#160;There was no sign of life
anywhere, and utter silence prevailed. &#160;The youth entered the
barn, the King following eagerly upon his heels. &#160;No one
there! The King shot a surprised and suspicious glance at the
youth, and asked—

"Where is he?"
