
"Oh, hear him!" groaned Hugo, then privately ground his teeth.
"He denies his own brother—and he with one foot in the grave!"

"Boy, thou art indeed hard of heart, if this is thy brother.
&#160;For shame!—and he scarce able to move hand or foot. &#160;If
he is not thy brother, who is he, then?"

"A beggar and a thief! &#160;He has got your money and has
picked your pocket likewise. &#160;An' thou would'st do a healing
miracle, lay thy staff over his shoulders and trust Providence for
the rest."

But Hugo did not tarry for the miracle. &#160;In a moment he was
up and off like the wind, the gentleman following after and raising
the hue and cry lustily as he went. &#160;The King, breathing deep
gratitude to Heaven for his own release, fled in the opposite
direction, and did not slacken his pace until he was out of harm's
reach. &#160;He took the first road that offered, and soon put the
village behind him. &#160;He hurried along, as briskly as he could,
during several hours, keeping a nervous watch over his shoulder for
pursuit; but his fears left him at last, and a grateful sense of
security took their place. &#160;He recognised, now, that he was
hungry, and also very tired. &#160;So he halted at a farmhouse; but
when he was about to speak, he was cut short and driven rudely
away. &#160;His clothes were against him.

He wandered on, wounded and indignant, and was resolved to put
himself in the way of like treatment no more. &#160;But hunger is
pride's master; so, as the evening drew near, he made an attempt at
another farmhouse; but here he fared worse than before; for he was
called hard names and was promised arrest as a vagrant except he
moved on promptly.

The night came on, chilly and overcast; and still the footsore
monarch laboured slowly on. &#160;He was obliged to keep moving,
for every time he sat down to rest he was soon penetrated to the
bone with the cold. &#160;All his sensations and experiences, as he
moved through the solemn gloom and the empty vastness of the night,
were new and strange to him. &#160;At intervals he heard voices
approach, pass by, and fade into silence; and as he saw nothing
more of the bodies they belonged to than a sort of formless
drifting blur, there was something spectral and uncanny about it
all that made him shudder. &#160;Occasionally he caught the twinkle
of a light—always far away, apparently—almost in another world; if
he heard the tinkle of a sheep's bell, it was vague, distant,
indistinct; the muffled lowing of the herds floated to him on the
night wind in vanishing cadences, a mournful sound; now and then
came the complaining howl of a dog over viewless expanses of field
and forest; all sounds were remote; they made the little King feel
that all life and activity were far removed from him, and that he
stood solitary, companionless, in the centre of a measureless
solitude.

He stumbled along, through the gruesome fascinations of this new
experience, startled occasionally by the soft rustling of the dry
leaves overhead, so like human whispers they seemed to sound; and
by-and-by he came suddenly upon the freckled light of a tin lantern
near at hand. &#160;He stepped back into the shadows and waited.
&#160;The lantern stood by the open door of a barn. &#160;The King
waited some time—there was no sound, and nobody stirring. &#160;He
got so cold, standing still, and the hospitable barn looked so
enticing, that at last he resolved to risk everything and enter. He
started swiftly and stealthily, and just as he was crossing the
threshold he heard voices behind him. &#160;He darted behind a
cask, within the barn, and stooped down. &#160;Two farm-labourers
came in, bringing the lantern with them, and fell to work, talking
meanwhile. &#160;Whilst they moved about with the light, the King
made good use of his eyes and took the bearings of what seemed to
be a good-sized stall at the further end of the place, purposing to
grope his way to it when he should be left to himself. &#160;He
also noted the position of a pile of horse blankets, midway of the
route, with the intent to levy upon them for the service of the
crown of England for one night.

By-and-by the men finished and went away, fastening the door
behind them and taking the lantern with them. &#160;The shivering
King made for the blankets, with as good speed as the darkness
would allow; gathered them up, and then groped his way safely to
the stall. &#160;Of two of the blankets he made a bed, then covered
himself with the remaining two. &#160;He was a glad monarch, now,
though the blankets were old and thin, and not quite warm enough;
and besides gave out a pungent horsey odour that was almost
suffocatingly powerful.

Although the King was hungry and chilly, he was also so tired
and so drowsy that these latter influences soon began to get the
advantage of the former, and he presently dozed off into a state of
semi-consciousness. &#160;Then, just as he was on the point of
losing himself wholly, he distinctly felt something touch him!
&#160;He was broad awake in a moment, and gasping for breath.
&#160;The cold horror of that mysterious touch in the dark almost
made his heart stand still. &#160;He lay motionless, and listened,
scarcely breathing. But nothing stirred, and there was no sound.
&#160;He continued to listen, and wait, during what seemed a long
time, but still nothing stirred, and there was no sound. &#160;So
he began to drop into a drowse once more, at last; and all at once
he felt that mysterious touch again! &#160;It was a grisly thing,
this light touch from this noiseless and invisible presence; it
made the boy sick with ghostly fears. &#160;What should he do?
&#160;That was the question; but he did not know how to answer it.
&#160;Should he leave these reasonably comfortable quarters and fly
from this inscrutable horror? &#160;But fly whither? &#160;He could
not get out of the barn; and the idea of scurrying blindly hither
and thither in the dark, within the captivity of the four walls,
with this phantom gliding after him, and visiting him with that
soft hideous touch upon cheek or shoulder at every turn, was
intolerable. &#160;But to stay where he was, and endure this living
death all night—was that better? &#160;No. &#160;What, then, was
there left to do? &#160;Ah, there was but one course; he knew it
well—he must put out his hand and find that thing!

It was easy to think this; but it was hard to brace himself up
to try it. Three times he stretched his hand a little way out into
the dark, gingerly; and snatched it suddenly back, with a gasp—not
because it had encountered anything, but because he had felt so
sure it was just GOING to. &#160;But the fourth time, he groped a
little further, and his hand lightly swept against something soft
and warm. &#160;This petrified him, nearly, with fright; his mind
was in such a state that he could imagine the thing to be nothing
else than a corpse, newly dead and still warm. He thought he would
rather die than touch it again. &#160;But he thought this false
thought because he did not know the immortal strength of human
curiosity. In no long time his hand was tremblingly groping
again—against his judgment, and without his consent—but groping
persistently on, just the same. &#160;It encountered a bunch of
long hair; he shuddered, but followed up the hair and found what
seemed to be a warm rope; followed up the rope and found an
innocent calf!—for the rope was not a rope at all, but the calf's
tail.

