"If thou art truly the King, then I believe thee."

"I am truly the King."

This settled the matter. &#160;His Majesty's royalty was
accepted without further question or discussion, and the two little
girls began at once to inquire into how he came to be where he was,
and how he came to be so unroyally clad, and whither he was bound,
and all about his affairs. &#160;It was a mighty relief to him to
pour out his troubles where they would not be scoffed at or
doubted; so he told his tale with feeling, forgetting even his
hunger for the time; and it was received with the deepest and
tenderest sympathy by the gentle little maids. &#160;But when he
got down to his latest experiences and they learned how long he had
been without food, they cut him short and hurried him away to the
farmhouse to find a breakfast for him.

The King was cheerful and happy now, and said to himself, "When
I am come to mine own again, I will always honour little children,
remembering how that these trusted me and believed in me in my time
of trouble; whilst they that were older, and thought themselves
wiser, mocked at me and held me for a liar."

The children's mother received the King kindly, and was full of
pity; for his forlorn condition and apparently crazed intellect
touched her womanly heart. &#160;She was a widow, and rather poor;
consequently she had seen trouble enough to enable her to feel for
the unfortunate. &#160;She imagined that the demented boy had
wandered away from his friends or keepers; so she tried to find out
whence he had come, in order that she might take measures to return
him; but all her references to neighbouring towns and villages, and
all her inquiries in the same line went for nothing—the boy's face,
and his answers, too, showed that the things she was talking of
were not familiar to him. &#160;He spoke earnestly and simply about
court matters, and broke down, more than once, when speaking of the
late King 'his father'; but whenever the conversation changed to
baser topics, he lost interest and became silent.

The woman was mightily puzzled; but she did not give up.
&#160;As she proceeded with her cooking, she set herself to
contriving devices to surprise the boy into betraying his real
secret. &#160;She talked about cattle—he showed no concern; then
about sheep—the same result: &#160;so her guess that he had been a
shepherd boy was an error; she talked about mills; and about
weavers, tinkers, smiths, trades and tradesmen of all sorts; and
about Bedlam, and jails, and charitable retreats: &#160;but no
matter, she was baffled at all points. &#160;Not altogether,
either; for she argued that she had narrowed the thing down to
domestic service. &#160;Yes, she was sure she was on the right
track, now; he must have been a house servant. &#160;So she led up
to that. &#160;But the result was discouraging. The subject of
sweeping appeared to weary him; fire-building failed to stir him;
scrubbing and scouring awoke no enthusiasm. The goodwife touched,
with a perishing hope, and rather as a matter of form, upon the
subject of cooking. &#160;To her surprise, and her vast delight,
the King's face lighted at once! &#160;Ah, she had hunted him down
at last, she thought; and she was right proud, too, of the devious
shrewdness and tact which had accomplished it.

Her tired tongue got a chance to rest, now; for the King's,
inspired by gnawing hunger and the fragrant smells that came from
the sputtering pots and pans, turned itself loose and delivered
itself up to such an eloquent dissertation upon certain toothsome
dishes, that within three minutes the woman said to herself, "Of a
truth I was right—he hath holpen in a kitchen!" &#160;Then he
broadened his bill of fare, and discussed it with such appreciation
and animation, that the goodwife said to herself, "Good lack! how
can he know so many dishes, and so fine ones withal? &#160;For
these belong only upon the tables of the rich and great. &#160;Ah,
now I see! ragged outcast as he is, he must have served in the
palace before his reason went astray; yes, he must have helped in
the very kitchen of the King himself! &#160;I will test him."

Full of eagerness to prove her sagacity, she told the King to
mind the cooking a moment—hinting that he might manufacture and add
a dish or two, if he chose; then she went out of the room and gave
her children a sign to follow after. &#160;The King muttered—

"Another English king had a commission like to this, in a bygone
time—it is nothing against my dignity to undertake an office which
the great Alfred stooped to assume. &#160;But I will try to better
serve my trust than he; for he let the cakes burn."

The intent was good, but the performance was not answerable to
it, for this King, like the other one, soon fell into deep
thinkings concerning his vast affairs, and the same calamity
resulted—the cookery got burned. The woman returned in time to save
the breakfast from entire destruction; and she promptly brought the
King out of his dreams with a brisk and cordial tongue-lashing.
Then, seeing how troubled he was over his violated trust, she
softened at once, and was all goodness and gentleness toward
him.

The boy made a hearty and satisfying meal, and was greatly
refreshed and gladdened by it. &#160;It was a meal which was
distinguished by this curious feature, that rank was waived on both
sides; yet neither recipient of the favour was aware that it had
been extended. &#160;The goodwife had intended to feed this young
tramp with broken victuals in a corner, like any other tramp or
like a dog; but she was so remorseful for the scolding she had
given him, that she did what she could to atone for it by allowing
him to sit at the family table and eat with his betters, on
ostensible terms of equality with them; and the King, on his side,
was so remorseful for having broken his trust, after the family had
been so kind to him, that he forced himself to atone for it by
humbling himself to the family level, instead of requiring the
woman and her children to stand and wait upon him, while he
occupied their table in the solitary state due to his birth and
dignity. &#160;It does us all good to unbend sometimes. &#160;This
good woman was made happy all the day long by the applauses which
she got out of herself for her magnanimous condescension to a
tramp; and the King was just as self-complacent over his gracious
humility toward a humble peasant woman.
