
He said this with almost hostile feeling. At the same time he
got up and looked anxiously in the looking-glass (perhaps for the
fortieth time that morning) at his nose. He began, too, binding his
red handkerchief more becomingly on his forehead.

"Red's better. It's just like the hospital in a white one," he
observed sententiously. "Well, how are things over there? How is
your elder?"

"He is very bad; he may die to-day," answered Alyosha. But his
father had not listened, and had forgotten his own question at
once.

"Ivan's gone out," he said suddenly. "He is doing his utmost to
carry off Mitya's betrothed. That's what he is staying here for,"
he added maliciously, and, twisting his mouth, looked at
Alyosha.

"Surely he did not tell you so?" asked Alyosha.

"Yes, he did, long ago. Would you believe it, he told me three
weeks ago? You don't suppose he too came to murder me, do you? He
must have had some object in coming."

"What do you mean? Why do you say such things?" said Alyosha,
troubled.

"He doesn't ask for money, it's true, but yet he won't get a
farthing from me. I intend living as long as possible, you may as
well know, my dear Alexey Fyodorovitch, and so I need every
farthing, and the longer I live, the more I shall need it," he
continued, pacing from one corner of the room to the other, keeping
his hands in the pockets of his loose greasy overcoat made of
yellow cotton material. "I can still pass for a man at five and
fifty, but I want to pass for one for another twenty years. As I
get older, you know, I shan't be a pretty object. The wenches won't
come to me of their own accord, so I shall want my money. So I am
saving up more and more, simply for myself, my dear son Alexey
Fyodorovitch. You may as well know. For I mean to go on in my sins
to the end, let me tell you. For sin is sweet; all abuse it, but
all men live in it, only others do it on the sly, and I openly. And
so all the other sinners fall upon me for being so simple. And your
paradise, Alexey Fyodorovitch, is not to my taste, let me tell you
that; and it's not the proper place for a gentleman, your paradise,
even if it exists. I believe that I fall asleep and don't wake up
again, and that's all. You can pray for my soul if you like. And if
you don't want to, don't, damn you! That's my philosophy. Ivan
talked well here yesterday, though we were all drunk. Ivan is a
conceited coxcomb, but he has no particular learningâ€¦ nor education
either. He sits silent and smiles at one without speaking- that's
what pulls him through."

Alyosha listened to him in silence.

"Why won't he talk to me? If he does speak, he gives himself
airs. Your Ivan is a scoundrel! And I'll marry Grushenka in a
minute if I want to. For if you've money, Alexey Fyodorovitch, you
have only to want a thing and you can have it. That's what Ivan is
afraid of, he is on the watch to prevent me getting married and
that's why he is egging on Mitya to marry Grushenka himself. He
hopes to keep me from Grushenka by that (as though I should leave
him my money if I don't marry her!). Besides if Mitya marries
Grushenka, Ivan will carry off his rich betrothed, that's what he's
reckoning on! He is a scoundrel, your Ivan!"

