
"But why?" asked Alyosha. "It's all so far off. We may have to
wait another year and a half."

"Ah, Alexey Fyodorovitch, that's true, of course, and you'll
have time to quarrel and separate a thousand times in a year and a
half. But I am so unhappy! Though it's such nonsense, it's a great
blow to me. I feel like Famusov in the last scene of Sorrow from
Wit. You are Tchatsky and she is Sofya, and, only fancy, I've run
down to meet you on the stairs, and in the play the fatal scene
takes place on the staircase. I heard it all; I almost dropped. So
this is the explanation of her dreadful night and her hysterics of
late! It means love to the daughter but death to the mother. I
might as well be in my grave at once. And a more serious matter
still, what is this letter she has written? Show it me at once, at
once!"

"No, there's no need. Tell me, how is Katerina Ivanovna now? I
must know."

"She still lies in delirium; she has not regained consciousness.
Her aunts are here; but they do nothing but sigh and give
themselves airs. Herzenstube came, and he was so alarmed that I
didn't know what to do for him. I nearly sent for a doctor to look
after him. He was driven home in my carriage. And on the top of it
all, you and this letter! It's true nothing can happen for a year
and a half. In the name of all that's holy, in the name of your
dying elder, show me that letter, Alexey Fyodorovitch. I'm her
mother. Hold it in your hand, if you like, and I will read it
so."

"No, I won't show it to you. Even if she sanctioned it, I
wouldn't. I am coming to-morrow, and if you like, we can talk over
many things, but now good-bye!"

And Alyosha ran downstairs and into the street.




