If but my dear one be in health?

Lord have mercy

On her and on me!

On her and on me!

On her and on me!

"It was even better last time," observed the woman's voice. "You
sang 'If my darling be in health'; it sounded more tender. I
suppose you've forgotten to-day."

"Poetry is rubbish!" said Smerdyakov curtly.

"Oh, no! I am very fond of poetry."

"So far as it's poetry, it's essential rubbish. Consider
yourself, who ever talks in rhyme? And if we were all to talk in
rhyme, even though it were decreed by government, we shouldn't say
much, should we? Poetry is no good, Marya Kondratyevna."

"How clever you are! How is it you've gone so deep into
everything?" The woman's voice was more and more insinuating.

"I could have done better than that. I could have known more
than that, if it had not been for my destiny from my childhood up.
I would have shot a man in a duel if he called me names because I
am descended from a filthy beggar and have no father. And they used
to throw it in my teeth in Moscow. It had reached them from here,
thanks to Grigory Vassilyevitch. Grigory Vassilyevitch blames me
for rebelling against my birth, but I would have sanctioned their
killing me before I was born that I might not have come into the
world at all. They used to say in the market, and your mamma too,
with great lack of delicacy, set off telling me that her hair was
like a mat on her head, and that she was short of five foot by a
wee bit. Why talk of a wee bit while she might have said 'a little
bit,' like everyone else? She wanted to make it touching, a regular
peasant's feeling. Can a Russian peasant be said to feel, in
comparison with an educated man? He can't be said to have feeling
at all, in his ignorance. From my childhood up when I hear 'a wee
bit,' I am ready to burst with rage. I hate all Russia, Marya
Kondratyevna."
