"Certainly, love it, regardless of logic as you say, it must be
regardless of logic, and it's only then one will understand the
meaning of it. I have thought so a long time. Half your work is
done, Ivan, you love life, now you've only to try to do the second
half and you are saved."

"You are trying to save me, but perhaps I am not lost! And what
does your second half mean?"

"Why, one has to raise up your dead, who perhaps have not died
after all. Come, let me have tea. I am so glad of our talk,
Ivan."

"I see you are feeling inspired. I am awfully fond of such
professions de foi
[7]
from such-
novices. You are a steadfast person, Alexey. Is it true that you
mean to leave the monastery?" "Yes, my elder sends me out into the
world." "We shall see each other then in the world. We shall meet
before I am thirty, when I shall begin to turn aside from the cup.
Father doesn't want to turn aside from his cup till he is seventy,
he dreams of hanging on to eighty in fact, so he says. He means it
only too seriously, though he is a buffoon. He stands on a firm
rock, too, he stands on his sensuality though after we are thirty,
indeed, there may be nothing else to stand on… . But to hang on to
seventy is nasty, better only to thirty; one might retain 'a shadow
of nobility' by deceiving oneself. Have you seen Dmitri to-day?"
"No, but I saw Smerdyakov," and Alyosha rapidly, though minutely,
described his meeting with Smerdyakov. Ivan began listening
anxiously and questioned him. "But he begged me not to tell Dmitri
that he had told me about him," added Alyosha. Ivan frowned and
pondered. "Are you frowning on Smerdyakov's account?" asked
Alyosha. "Yes, on his account. Damn him, I certainly did want to
see Dmitri, but now there's no need," said Ivan reluctantly. "But
are you really going so soon, brother?" "What of Dmitri and father?
how will it end?" asked Alyosha anxiously. "You are always harping
upon it! What have I to do with it? Am I my brother Dmitri's
keeper?" Ivan snapped irritably, but then he suddenly smiled
bitterly. "Cain's answer about his murdered brother, wasn't it?
Perhaps that's what you're thinking at this moment? Well damn it
all, I can't stay here to be their keeper, can I? I've finished
what I had to do, and I am going. Do you imagine I am jealous of
Dmitri, that I've been trying to steal his beautiful Katerina
Ivanovna for the last three months? Nonsense, I had business of my
own. I finished it. I am going. I finished it just now, you were
witness." "At Katerina Ivanovna's?" "Yes, and I've released myself
once for all. And after all, what have I to do with Dmitri? Dmitri
doesn't come in. I had my own business to settle with Katerina
Ivanovna. You know, on the contrary, that Dmitri behaved as though
there was an understanding between us. I didn't ask to do it, but
he solemnly handed her over to me and gave us his blessing. It's
all too funny. Ah, Alyosha, if you only knew how light my heart is
now! Would you believe it, I sat here eating my dinner and was
nearly ordering champagne to celebrate my first hour of freedom.
Tfoo! It's been going on nearly six months, and all at once I've
thrown it off. I could never have guessed even yesterday, how easy
it would be to put an end to it if I wanted." "You are speaking of
your love, Ivan?" "Of my love, if you like. I fell in love with the
young lady, I worried myself over her and she worried me. I sat
watching over her… and all at once it's collapsed! I spoke this
morning with inspiration, but I went away and roared with laughter.
Would you believe it? Yes, it's the literal truth." "You seem very
merry about it now," observed Alyosha, looking into his face, which
had suddenly grown brighter. "But how could I tell that I didn't
care for her a bit! Ha ha! It appears after all I didn't. And yet
how she attracted me! How attractive she was just now when I made
my speech! And do you know she attracts me awfully even now, yet
how easy it is to leave her. Do you think I am boasting?" "No, only
perhaps it wasn't love." "Alyosha," laughed Ivan, "don't make
reflections about love, it's unseemly for you. How you rushed into
the discussion this morning! I've forgotten to kiss you for it… .
But how she tormented me! It certainly was sitting by a
'laceration.' Ah, she knew how I loved her! She loved me and not
Dmitri," Ivan insisted gaily. "Her feeling for Dmitri was simply a
self-laceration. All I told her just now was perfectly true, but
the worst of it is, it may take her fifteen or twenty years to find
out that she doesn't care for Dmitri, and loves me whom she
torments, and perhaps she may never find it out at all, in spite of
her lesson to-day. Well, it's better so; I can simply go away for
good. By the way, how is she now? What happened after I departed?"
Alyosha told him she had been hysterical, and that she was now, he
heard, unconscious and delirious. "Isn't Madame Hohlakov laying it
on?" "I think not." "I must find out. Nobody dies of hysterics,
though. They don't matter. God gave woman hysterics as a relief. I
won't go to her at all. Why push myself forward again?" "But you
told her that she had never cared for you." "I did that on purpose.
Alyosha, shall I call for some champagne? Let us drink to my
freedom. Ah, if only you knew how glad I am!" "No, brother, we had
better not drink," said Alyosha suddenly. "Besides I feel somehow
depressed." "Yes, you've been depressed a long time, I've noticed
it." "Have you settled to go to-morrow morning, then?" "Morning? I
didn't say I should go in the morning… . But perhaps it may be the
morning. Would you believe it, I dined here to-day only to avoid
dining with the old man, I loathe him so. I should have left long
ago, so far as he is concerned. But why are you so worried about my
going away? We've plenty of time before I go, an eternity!" "If you
are going away to-morrow, what do you mean by an eternity?" "But
what does it matter to us?" laughed Ivan. "We've time enough for
our talk, for what brought us here. Why do you look so surprised?
Answer: why have we met here? To talk of my love for Katerina
Ivanovna, of the old man and Dmitri? of foreign travel? of the
fatal position of Russia? of the Emperor Napoleon? Is that it?"
"No." "Then you know what for. It's different for other people; but
we in our green youth have to settle the eternal questions first of
all. That's what we care about. Young Russia is talking about
nothing but the eternal questions now. just when the old folks are
all taken up with practical questions. Why have you been looking at
me in expectation for the last three months? To ask me, 'What do
you believe, or don't you believe at all?' That's what your eyes
have been meaning for these three months, haven't they?" "Perhaps
so," smiled Alyosha. "You are not laughing at me, now, Ivan? "Me
laughing! I don't want to wound my little brother who has been
watching me with such expectation for three months. Alyosha, look
straight at me! Of course, I am just such a little boy as you are,
only not a novice. And what have Russian boys been doing up till
now, some of them, I mean? In this stinking tavern, for instance,
here, they meet and sit down in a corner. They've never met in
their lives before and, when they go out of the tavern, they won't
meet again for forty years. And what do they talk about in that
momentary halt in the tavern? Of the eternal questions, of the
existence of God and immortality. And those who do not believe in
God talk of socialism or anarchism, of the transformation of all
humanity on a new pattern, so that it all comes to the same,
they're the same questions turned inside out. And masses, masses of
the most original Russian boys do nothing but talk of the eternal
questions! Isn't it so?" "Yes, for real Russians the questions of
God's existence and of immortality, or, as you say, the same
questions turned inside out, come first and foremost, of course,
and so they should," said Alyosha, still watching his brother with
the same gentle and inquiring smile. "Well, Alyosha, it's sometimes
very unwise to be a Russian at all, but anything stupider than the
way Russian boys spend their time one can hardly imagine. But
there's one Russian boy called Alyosha I am awfully fond of." "How
nicely you put that in!" Alyosha laughed suddenly. "Well, tell me
where to begin, give your orders. The existence of God, eh?" "Begin
where you like. You declared yesterday at father's that there was
no God." Alyosha looked searchingly at his brother. "I said that
yesterday at dinner on purpose to tease you and I saw your eyes
glow. But now I've no objection to discussing with you, and I say
so very seriously. I want to be friends with you, Alyosha, for I
have no friends and want to try it. Well, only fancy, perhaps I too
accept God," laughed Ivan; "that's a surprise for you, isn't it?"
"Yes of course, if you are not joking now." "Joking? I was told at
the elder's yesterday that I was joking. You know, dear boy, there
was an old sinner in the eighteenth century who declared that, if
there were no God, he would have to be invented. S'il n'existait
pas Dieu, il faudrait l'inventer. And man has actually invented
God. And what's strange, what would be marvellous, is not that God
should really exist; the marvel is that such an idea, the idea of
the necessity of God, could enter the head of such a savage,
vicious beast as man. So holy it is, so touching, so wise and so
great a credit it does to man. As for me, I've long resolved not to
think whether man created God or God man. And I won't go through
all the axioms laid down by Russian boys on that subject, all
derived from European hypotheses; for what's a hypothesis there is
an axiom with the Russian boy, and not only with the boys but with
their teachers too, for our Russian professors are often just the
same boys themselves. And so I omit all the hypotheses. For what
are we aiming at now? I am trying to explain as quickly as possible
my essential nature, that is what manner of man I am, what I
believe in, and for what I hope, that's it, isn't it? And therefore
I tell you that I accept God simply. But you must note this: if God
exists and if He really did create the world, then, as we all know,
He created it according to the geometry of Euclid and the human
mind with the conception of only three dimensions in space. Yet
there have been and still are geometricians and philosophers, and
even some of the most distinguished, who doubt whether the whole
universe, or to speak more widely, the whole of being, was only
created in Euclid's geometry; they even dare to dream that two
parallel lines, which according to Euclid can never meet on earth,
may meet somewhere in infinity. I have come to the conclusion that,
since I can't understand even that, I can't expect to understand
about God. I acknowledge humbly that I have no faculty for settling
such questions, I have a Euclidian earthly mind, and how could I
solve problems that are not of this world? And I advise you never
to think about it either, my dear Alyosha, especially about God,
whether He exists or not. All such questions are utterly
inappropriate for a mind created with an idea of only three
dimensions. And so I accept God and am glad to, and what's more, I
accept His wisdom, His purpose which are utterly beyond our ken; I
believe in the underlying order and the meaning of life; I believe
in the eternal harmony in which they say we shall one day be
blended. I believe in the Word to Which the universe is striving,
and Which Itself was 'with God,' and Which Itself is God and so on,
and so on, to infinity. There are all sorts of phrases for it. I
seem to be on the right path, don't I'? Yet would you believe it,
in the final result I don't accept this world of God's, and,
although I know it exists, I don't accept it at all. It's not that
I don't accept God, you must understand, it's the world created by
Him I don't and cannot accept. Let me make it plain. I believe like
a child that suffering will be healed and made up for, that all the
humiliating absurdity of human contradictions will vanish like a
pitiful mirage, like the despicable fabrication of the impotent and
infinitely small Euclidian mind of man, that in the world's finale,
at the moment of eternal harmony, something so precious will come
to pass that it will suffice for all hearts, for the comforting of
all resentments, for the atonement of all the crimes of humanity,
of all the blood they've shed; that it will make it not only
possible to forgive but to justify all that has happened with men-
but thought all that may come to pass, I don't accept it. I won't
accept it. Even if parallel lines do meet and I see it myself, I
shall see it and say that they've met, but still I won't accept it.
That's what's at the root of me, Alyosha; that's my creed. I am in
earnest in what I say. I began our talk as stupidly as I could on
purpose, but I've led up to my confession, for that's all you want.
You didn't want to hear about God, but only to know what the
brother you love lives by. And so I've told you." Ivan concluded
his long tirade with marked and unexpected feeling. "And why did
you begin 'as stupidly as you could'?" asked Alyosha, looking
dreamily at him. "To begin with, for the sake of being Russian.
Russian conversations on such subjects are always carried on
inconceivably stupidly. And secondly, the stupider one is, the
closer one is to reality. The stupider one is, the clearer one is.
Stupidity is brief and artless, while intelligence wriggles and
hides itself. Intelligence is a knave, but stupidity is honest and
straight forward. I've led the conversation to my despair, and the
more stupidly I have presented it, the better for me." "You will
explain why you don't accept the world?" said Alyosha. "To be sure
I will, it's not a secret, that's what I've been leading up to.
Dear little brother, I don't want to corrupt you or to turn you
from your stronghold, perhaps I want to be healed by you." Ivan
smiled suddenly quite like a little gentle child. Alyosha had never
seen such a smile on his face before.




