"Take it as the last," said Ivan, laughing, "if you are so
corrupted by modern realism and can't stand anything fantastic. If
you like it to be a case of mistaken identity, let it be so. It is
true," he went on, laughing, "the old man was ninety, and he might
well be crazy over his set idea. He might have been struck by the
appearance of the Prisoner. It might, in fact, be simply his
ravings, the delusion of an old man of ninety, over-excited by the
auto da fe of a hundred heretics the day before. But does it matter
to us after all whether it was a mistake of identity or a wild
fantasy? All that matters is that the old man should speak out,
that he should speak openly of what he has thought in silence for
ninety years."

"And the Prisoner too is silent? Does He look at him and not say
a word?"

"That's inevitable in any case," Ivan laughed again. "The old
man has told Him He hasn't the right to add anything to what He has
said of old. One may say it is the most fundamental feature of
Roman Catholicism, in my opinion at least. 'All has been given by
Thee to the Pope,' they say, 'and all, therefore, is still in the
Pope's hands, and there is no need for Thee to come now at all.
Thou must not meddle for the time, at least.' That's how they speak
and write too- the Jesuits, at any rate. I have read it myself in
the works of their theologians. 'Hast Thou the right to reveal to
us one of the mysteries of that world from which Thou hast come?'
my old man asks Him, and answers the question for Him. 'No, Thou
hast not; that Thou mayest not add to what has been said of old,
and mayest not take from men the freedom which Thou didst exalt
when Thou wast on earth. Whatsoever Thou revealest anew will
encroach on men's freedom of faith; for it will be manifest as a
miracle, and the freedom of their faith was dearer to Thee than
anything in those days fifteen hundred years ago. Didst Thou not
often say then, "I will make you free"? But now Thou hast seen
these "free" men,' the old man adds suddenly, with a pensive smile.
'Yes, we've paid dearly for it,' he goes on, looking sternly at
Him, 'but at last we have completed that work in Thy name. For
fifteen centuries we have been wrestling with Thy freedom, but now
it is ended and over for good. Dost Thou not believe that it's over
for good? Thou lookest meekly at me and deignest not even to be
wroth with me. But let me tell Thee that now, to-day, people are
more persuaded than ever that they have perfect freedom, yet they
have brought their freedom to us and laid it humbly at our feet.
But that has been our doing. Was this what Thou didst? Was this Thy
freedom?'"

"I don't understand again." Alyosha broke in. "Is he ironical,
is he jesting?"

"Not a bit of it! He claims it as a merit for himself and his
Church that at last they have vanquished freedom and have done so
to make men happy. 'For now' (he is speaking of the Inquisition, of
course) 'for the first time it has become possible to think of the
happiness of men. Man was created a rebel; and how can rebels be
happy? Thou wast warned,' he says to Him. 'Thou hast had no lack of
admonitions and warnings, but Thou didst not listen to those
warnings; Thou didst reject the only way by which men might be made
happy. But, fortunately, departing Thou didst hand on the work to
us. Thou hast promised, Thou hast established by Thy word, Thou
hast given to us the right to bind and to unbind, and now, of
course, Thou canst not think of taking it away. Why, then, hast
Thou come to hinder us?'"

"And what's the meaning of 'no lack of admonitions and
warnings'?" asked Alyosha.

"Why, that's the chief part of what the old man must say.

"'The wise and dread spirit, the spirit of self-destruction and
non-existence,' the old man goes on, great spirit talked with Thee
in the wilderness, and we are told in the books that he "tempted"
Thee. Is that so? And could anything truer be said than what he
revealed to Thee in three questions and what Thou didst reject, and
what in the books is called "the temptation"? And yet if there has
ever been on earth a real stupendous miracle, it took place on that
day, on the day of the three temptations. The statement of those
three questions was itself the miracle. If it were possible to
imagine simply for the sake of argument that those three questions
of the dread spirit had perished utterly from the books, and that
we had to restore them and to invent them anew, and to do so had
gathered together all the wise men of the earth- rulers, chief
priests, learned men, philosophers, poets- and had set them the
task to invent three questions, such as would not only fit the
occasion, but express in three words, three human phrases, the
whole future history of the world and of humanity- dost Thou
believe that all the wisdom of the earth united could have invented
anything in depth and force equal to the three questions which were
actually put to Thee then by the wise and mighty spirit in the
wilderness? From those questions alone, from the miracle of their
statement, we can see that we have here to do not with the fleeting
human intelligence, but with the absolute and eternal. For in those
three questions the whole subsequent history of mankind is, as it
were, brought together into one whole, and foretold, and in them
are united all the unsolved historical contradictions of human
nature. At the time it could not be so clear, since the future was
unknown; but now that fifteen hundred years have passed, we see
that everything in those three questions was so justly divined and
foretold, and has been so truly fulfilled, that nothing can be
added to them or taken from them.

"Judge Thyself who was right- Thou or he who questioned Thee
then? Remember the first question; its meaning, in other words, was
this: "Thou wouldst go into the world, and art going with empty
hands, with some promise of freedom which men in their simplicity
and their natural unruliness cannot even understand, which they
fear and dread- for nothing has ever been more insupportable for a
man and a human society than freedom. But seest Thou these stones
in this parched and barren wilderness? Turn them into bread, and
mankind will run after Thee like a flock of sheep, grateful and
obedient, though for ever trembling, lest Thou withdraw Thy hand
and deny them Thy bread." But Thou wouldst not deprive man of
freedom and didst reject the offer, thinking, what is that freedom
worth if obedience is bought with bread? Thou didst reply that man
lives not by bread alone. But dost Thou know that for the sake of
that earthly bread the spirit of the earth will rise up against
Thee and will strive with Thee and overcome Thee, and all will
follow him, crying, "Who can compare with this beast? He has given
us fire from heaven!" Dost Thou know that the ages will pass, and
humanity will proclaim by the lips of their sages that there is no
crime, and therefore no sin; there is only hunger? "Feed men, and
then ask of them virtue!" that's what they'll write on the banner,
which they will raise against Thee, and with which they will
destroy Thy temple. Where Thy temple stood will rise a new
building; the terrible tower of Babel will be built again, and
though, like the one of old, it will not be finished, yet Thou
mightest have prevented that new tower and have cut short the
sufferings of men for a thousand years; for they will come back to
us after a thousand years of agony with their tower. They will seek
us again, hidden underground in the catacombs, for we shall be
again persecuted and tortured. They will find us and cry to us,
"Feed us, for those who have promised us fire from heaven haven't
given it!" And then we shall finish building their tower, for he
finishes the building who feeds them. And we alone shall feed them
in Thy name, declaring falsely that it is in Thy name. Oh, never,
never can they feed themselves without us! No science will give
them bread so long as they remain free. In the end they will lay
their freedom at our feet, and say to us, "Make us your slaves, but
feed us." They will understand themselves, at last, that freedom
and bread enough for all are inconceivable together, for never,
never will they be able to share between them! They will be
convinced, too, that they can never be free, for they are weak,
vicious, worthless, and rebellious. Thou didst promise them the
bread of Heaven, but, I repeat again, can it compare with earthly
bread in the eyes of the weak, ever sinful and ignoble race of man?
And if for the sake of the bread of Heaven thousands shall follow
Thee, what is to become of the millions and tens of thousands of
millions of creatures who will not have the strength to forego the
earthly bread for the sake of the heavenly? Or dost Thou care only
for the tens of thousands of the great and strong, while the
millions, numerous as the sands of the sea, who are weak but love
Thee, must exist only for the sake of the great and strong? No, we
care for the weak too. They are sinful and rebellious, but in the
end they too will become obedient. They will marvel at us and look
on us as gods, because we are ready to endure the freedom which
they have found so dreadful and to rule over them- so awful it will
seem to them to be free. But we shall tell them that we are Thy
servants and rule them in Thy name. We shall deceive them again,
for we will not let Thee come to us again. That deception will be
our suffering, for we shall be forced to lie.

"'This is the significance of the first question in the
wilderness, and this is what Thou hast rejected for the sake of
that freedom which Thou hast exalted above everything. Yet in this
question lies hid the great secret of this world. Choosing "bread,"
Thou wouldst have satisfied the universal and everlasting craving
of humanity- to find someone to worship. So long as man remains
free he strives for nothing so incessantly and so painfully as to
find someone to worship. But man seeks to worship what is
established beyond dispute, so that all men would agree at once to
worship it. For these pitiful creatures are concerned not only to
find what one or the other can worship, but to find community of
worship is the chief misery of every man individually and of all
humanity from the beginning of time. For the sake of common worship
they've slain each other with the sword. They have set up gods and
challenged one another, "Put away your gods and come and worship
ours, or we will kill you and your gods!" And so it will be to the
end of the world, even when gods disappear from the earth; they
will fall down before idols just the same. Thou didst know, Thou
couldst not but have known, this fundamental secret of human
nature, but Thou didst reject the one infallible banner which was
offered Thee to make all men bow down to Thee alone- the banner of
earthly bread; and Thou hast rejected it for the sake of freedom
and the bread of Heaven. Behold what Thou didst further. And all
again in the name of freedom! I tell Thee that man is tormented by
no greater anxiety than to find someone quickly to whom he can hand
over that gift of freedom with which the ill-fated creature is
born. But only one who can appease their conscience can take over
their freedom. In bread there was offered Thee an invincible
banner; give bread, and man will worship thee, for nothing is more
certain than bread. But if someone else gains possession of his
conscience- Oh! then he will cast away Thy bread and follow after
him who has ensnared his conscience. In that Thou wast right. For
the secret of man's being is not only to live but to have something
to live for. Without a stable conception of the object of life, man
would not consent to go on living, and would rather destroy himself
than remain on earth, though he had bread in abundance. That is
true. But what happened? Instead of taking men's freedom from them,
Thou didst make it greater than ever! Didst Thou forget that man
prefers peace, and even death, to freedom of choice in the
knowledge of good and evil? Nothing is more seductive for man than
his freedom of conscience, but nothing is a greater cause of
suffering. And behold, instead of giving a firm foundation for
setting the conscience of man at rest for ever, Thou didst choose
all that is exceptional, vague and enigmatic; Thou didst choose
what was utterly beyond the strength of men, acting as though Thou
didst not love them at all- Thou who didst come to give Thy life
for them! Instead of taking possession of men's freedom, Thou didst
increase it, and burdened the spiritual kingdom of mankind with its
sufferings for ever. Thou didst desire man's free love, that he
should follow Thee freely, enticed and taken captive by Thee. In
place of the rigid ancient law, man must hereafter with free heart
decide for himself what is good and what is evil, having only Thy
image before him as his guide. But didst Thou not know that he
would at last reject even Thy image and Thy truth, if he is weighed
down with the fearful burden of free choice? They will cry aloud at
last that the truth is not in Thee, for they could not have been
left in greater confusion and suffering than Thou hast caused,
laying upon them so many cares and unanswerable problems.

"'So that, in truth, Thou didst Thyself lay the foundation for
the destruction of Thy kingdom, and no one is more to blame for it.
Yet what was offered Thee? There are three powers, three powers
alone, able to conquer and to hold captive for ever the conscience
of these impotent rebels for their happiness those forces are
miracle, mystery and authority. Thou hast rejected all three and
hast set the example for doing so. When the wise and dread spirit
set Thee on the pinnacle of the temple and said to Thee, "If Thou
wouldst know whether Thou art the Son of God then cast Thyself
down, for it is written: the angels shall hold him up lest he fall
and bruise himself, and Thou shalt know then whether Thou art the
Son of God and shalt prove then how great is Thy faith in Thy
Father." But Thou didst refuse and wouldst not cast Thyself down.
Oh, of course, Thou didst proudly and well, like God; but the weak,
unruly race of men, are they gods? Oh, Thou didst know then that in
taking one step, in making one movement to cast Thyself down, Thou
wouldst be tempting God and have lost all Thy faith in Him, and
wouldst have been dashed to pieces against that earth which Thou
didst come to save. And the wise spirit that tempted Thee would
have rejoiced. But I ask again, are there many like Thee? And
couldst Thou believe for one moment that men, too, could face such
a temptation? Is the nature of men such, that they can reject
miracle, and at the great moments of their life, the moments of
their deepest, most agonising spiritual difficulties, cling only to
the free verdict of the heart? Oh, Thou didst know that Thy deed
would be recorded in books, would be handed down to remote times
and the utmost ends of the earth, and Thou didst hope that man,
following Thee, would cling to God and not ask for a miracle. But
Thou didst not know that when man rejects miracle he rejects God
too; for man seeks not so much God as the miraculous. And as man
cannot bear to be without the miraculous, he will create new
miracles of his own for himself, and will worship deeds of sorcery
and witchcraft, though he might be a hundred times over a rebel,
heretic and infidel. Thou didst not come down from the Cross when
they shouted to Thee, mocking and reviling Thee, "Come down from
the cross and we will believe that Thou art He." Thou didst not
come down, for again Thou wouldst not enslave man by a miracle, and
didst crave faith given freely, not based on miracle. Thou didst
crave for free love and not the base raptures of the slave before
the might that has overawed him for ever. But Thou didst think too
highly of men therein, for they are slaves, of course, though
rebellious by nature. Look round and judge; fifteen centuries have
passed, look upon them. Whom hast Thou raised up to Thyself? I
swear, man is weaker and baser by nature than Thou hast believed
him! Can he, can he do what Thou didst? By showing him so much
respect, Thou didst, as it were, cease to feel for him, for Thou
didst ask far too much from him- Thou who hast loved him more than
Thyself! Respecting him less, Thou wouldst have asked less of him.
That would have been more like love, for his burden would have been
lighter. He is weak and vile. What though he is everywhere now
rebelling against our power, and proud of his rebellion? It is the
pride of a child and a schoolboy. They are little children rioting
and barring out the teacher at school. But their childish delight
will end; it will cost them dear. Mankind as a whole has always
striven to organise a universal state. There have been many great
nations with great histories, but the more highly they were
developed the more unhappy they were, for they felt more acutely
than other people the craving for world-wide union. The great
conquerors, Timours and Ghenghis-Khans, whirled like hurricanes
over the face of the earth striving to subdue its people, and they
too were but the unconscious expression of the same craving for
universal unity. Hadst Thou taken the world and Caesar's purple,
Thou wouldst have founded the universal state and have given
universal peace. For who can rule men if not he who holds their
conscience and their bread in his hands? We have taken the sword of
Caesar, and in taking it, of course, have rejected Thee and
followed him. Oh, ages are yet to come of the confusion of free
thought, of their science and cannibalism. For having begun to
build their tower of Babel without us, they will end, of course,
with cannibalism. But then the beast will crawl to us and lick our
feet and spatter them with tears of blood. And we shall sit upon
the beast and raise the cup, and on it will be written, "Mystery."
But then, and only then, the reign of peace and happiness will come
for men. Thou art proud of Thine elect, but Thou hast only the
elect, while we give rest to all. And besides, how many of those
elect, those mighty ones who could become elect, have grown weary
waiting for Thee, and have transferred and will transfer the powers
of their spirit and the warmth of their heart to the other camp,
and end by raising their free banner against Thee. Thou didst
Thyself lift up that banner. But with us all will be happy and will
no more rebel nor destroy one another as under Thy freedom. Oh, we
shall persuade them that they will only become free when they
renounce their freedom to us and submit to us. And shall we be
right or shall we be lying? They will be convinced that we are
right, for they will remember the horrors of slavery and confusion
to which Thy freedom brought them. Freedom, free thought, and
science will lead them into such straits and will bring them face
to face with such marvels and insoluble mysteries, that some of
them, the fierce and rebellious, will destroy themselves, others,
rebellious but weak, will destroy one another, while the rest, weak
and unhappy, will crawl fawning to our feet and whine to us: "Yes,
you were right, you alone possess His mystery, and we come back to
you, save us from ourselves!"
