


Chapter

6
For Awhile a Very Obscure One


AND Ivan, on parting from Alyosha, went home to Fyodor
Pavlovitch's house. But, strange to say, he was overcome by
insufferable depression, which grew greater at every step he took
towards the house. There was nothing strange in his being
depressed; what was strange was that Ivan could not have said what
was the cause of it. He had often been depressed before, and there
was nothing surprising at his feeling so at such a moment, when he
had broken off with everything had brought him here, and was
preparing that day to make a new start and enter upon a new,
unknown future. He would again be as solitary as ever, and though
he had great hopes, and great- too great- expectations from life,
he could not have given any definite account of his hopes, his
expectations, or even his desires.

Yet at that moment, though the apprehension of the new and
unknown certainly found place in his heart, what was worrying him
was something quite different. "Is it loathing for my father's
house?" he wondered. "Quite likely; I am so sick of it; and though
it's the last time I shall cross its hateful threshold, still I
loathe itâ€¦ . No, it's not that either. Is it the parting with
Alyosha and the conversation I had with him? For so many years I've
been silent with the whole world and not deigned to speak, and all
of a sudden I reel off a rigmarole like that." certainly might have
been the youthful vexation of youthful inexperience and vanity-
vexation at having failed to express himself, especially with such
a being as Alyosha, on whom his heart had certainly been reckoning.
No doubt that came in, that vexation, it must have done indeed; but
yet that was not it, that was not it either. "I feel sick with
depression and yet I can't tell what I want. Better not think,
perhaps."

Ivan tried "not to think," but that, too, was no use. What made
his depression so vexatious and irritating was that it had a kind
of casual, external character- he felt that. Some person or thing
seemed to be standing out somewhere, just as something will
sometimes obtrude itself upon the eye, and though one may be so
busy with work or conversation that for a long time one does not
notice it, yet it irritates and almost torments one till at last
one realises, and removes the offending object, often quite a
trifling and ridiculous one- some article left about in the wrong
place, a handkerchief on the floor, a book not replaced on the
shelf, and so on.

At last, feeling very cross and ill-humoured, Ivan arrived home,
and suddenly, about fifteen paces from the garden gate, he guessed
what was fretting and worrying him.

On a bench in the gateway the valet Smerdyakov was sitting
enjoying the coolness of the evening, and at the first glance at
him Ivan knew that the valet Smerdyakov was on his mind, and that
it was this man that his soul loathed. It all dawned upon him
suddenly and became clear. just before, when Alyosha had been
telling him of his meeting with Smerdyakov, he had felt a sudden
twinge of gloom and loathing, which had immediately stirred
responsive anger in his heart. Afterwards, as he talked, Smerdyakov
had been forgotten for the time; but still he had been in his mind,
and as soon as Ivan parted with Alyosha and was walking home, the
forgotten sensation began to obtrude itself again. "Is it possible
that a miserable, contemptible creature like that can worry me so
much?" he wondered, with insufferable irritation.

It was true that Ivan had come of late to feel an intense
dislike for the man, especially during the last few days. He had
even begun to notice in himself a growing feeling that was almost
of hatred for the creature. Perhaps this hatred was accentuated by
the fact that when Ivan first came to the neighbourhood he had felt
quite differently. Then he had taken a marked interest in
Smerdyakov, and had even thought him very original. He had
encouraged him to talk to him, although he had always wondered at a
certain incoherence, or rather restlessness, in his mind, and could
not understand what it was that so continually and insistently
worked upon the brain of "the contemplative." They discussed
philosophical questions and even how there could have been light on
the first day when the sun, moon, and stars were only created on
the fourth day, and how that was to be understood. But Ivan soon
saw that, though the sun, moon, and stars might be an interesting
subject, yet that it was quite secondary to Smerdyakov, and that he
was looking for something altogether different. In one way and
another, he began to betray a boundless vanity, and a wounded
vanity, too, and that Ivan disliked. It had first given rise to his
aversion. Later on, there had been trouble in the house. Grushenka
had come on the scene, and there had been the scandals with his
brother Dmitri- they discussed that, too. But though Smerdyakov
always talked of that with great excitement, it was impossible to
discover what he desired to come of it. There was, in fact,
something surprising in the illogicality and incoherence of some of
his desires, accidentally betrayed and always vaguely expressed.
Smerdyakov was always inquiring, putting certain indirect but
obviously premeditated questions, but what his object was he did
not explain, and usually at the most important moment he would
break off and relapse into silence or pass to another subject. But
what finally irritated Ivan most and confirmed his dislike for him
was the peculiar, revolting familiarity which Smerdyakov began to
show more and more markedly. Not that he forgot himself and was
rude; on the contrary, he always spoke very respectfully, yet he
had obviously begun to consider- goodness knows why!- that there
was some sort of understanding between him and Ivan Fyodorovitch.
He always spoke in a tone that suggested that those two had some
kind of compact, some secret between them, that had at some time
been expressed on both sides, only known to them and beyond the
comprehension of those around them. But for a long while Ivan did
not recognise the real cause of his growing dislike and he had only
lately realised what was at the root of it.

With a feeling of disgust and irritation he tried to pass in at
the gate without speaking or looking at Smerdyakov. But Smerdyakov
rose from the bench, and from that action alone, Ivan knew
instantly that he wanted particularly to talk to him. Ivan looked
at him and stopped, and the fact that he did stop, instead of
passing by, as he meant to the minute before, drove him to fury.
With anger and repulsion he looked at Smerdyakov's emasculate,
sickly face, with the little curls combed forward on his forehead.
His left eye winked and he grinned as if to say, "Where are you
going? You won't pass by; you see that we two clever people have
something to say to each other."
