
"Get up, my dear boy," the elder went on to Alyosha. "Let me
look at you. Have you been home and seen your brother?" It seemed
strange to Alyosha that he asked so confidently and precisely,
about one of his brothers only- but which one? Then perhaps he had
sent him out both yesterday and to-day for the sake of that
brother.

"I have seen one of my brothers," answered Alyosha.

"I mean the elder one, to whom I bowed down."

"I only saw him yesterday and could not find him to-day," said
Alyosha.

"Make haste to find him, go again to-morrow and make haste,
leave everything and make haste. Perhaps you may still have time to
prevent something terrible. I bowed down yesterday to the great
suffering in store for him."

He was suddenly silent and seemed to be pondering. The words
were strange. Father Iosif, who had witnessed the scene yesterday,
exchanged glances with Father Paissy. Alyosha could not resist
asking:

"Father and teacher," he began with extreme emotion, "your words
are too obscure… . What is this suffering in store for him?"

"Don't inquire. I seemed to see something terrible yesterday… as
though his whole future were expressed in his eyes. A look came
into his eyes- so that I was instantly horror-stricken at what that
man is preparing for himself. Once or twice in my life I've seen
such a look in a man's face… reflecting as it were his future fate,
and that fate, alas, came to pass. I sent you to him, Alexey, for I
thought your brotherly face would help him. But everything and all
our fates are from the Lord. 'Except a corn of wheat fall into the
ground and die, it abideth alone; but if it die, it bringeth forth
much fruit.' Remember that. You, Alexey, I've many times silently
blessed for your face, know that," added the elder with a gentle
smile. "This is what I think of you, you will go forth from these
walls, but will live like a monk in the world. You will have many
enemies, but even your foes will love you. Life will bring you many
misfortunes, but you will find your happiness in them, and will
bless life and will make others bless it- which is what matters
most. Well, that is your character. Fathers and teachers," he
addressed his friends with a tender smile, "I have never till
to-day told even him why the face of this youth is so dear to me.
Now I will tell you. His face has been as it were a remembrance and
a prophecy for me. At the dawn of my life when I was a child I had
an elder brother who died before my eyes at seventeen. And later on
in the course of my life I gradually became convinced that that
brother had been for a guidance and a sign from on high for me. For
had he not come into my life, I should never perhaps, so I fancy at
least, have become a monk and entered on this precious path. He
appeared first to me in my childhood, and here, at the end of my
pilgrimage, he seems to have come to me over again. It is
marvellous, fathers and teachers, that Alexey, who has some, though
not a great, resemblance in face, seems to me so like him
spiritually, that many times I have taken him for that young man,
my brother, mysteriously come back to me at the end of my
pilgrimage, as a reminder and an inspiration. So that I positively
wondered at so strange a dream in myself. Do you hear this,
Porfiry?" he turned to the novice who waited on him. "Many times
I've seen in your face as it were a look of mortification that I
love Alexey more than you. Now you know why that was so, but I love
you too, know that, and many times I grieved at your mortification.
I should like to tell you, dear friends, of that youth, my brother,
for there has been no presence in my life more precious, more
significant and touching. My heart is full of tenderness, and I
look at my whole life at this moment as though living through it
again."

Here I must observe that this last conversation of Father
Zossima with the friends who visited him on the last day of his
life has been partly preserved in writing. Alexey Fyodorovitch
Karamazov wrote it down from memory, some time after his elder's
death. But whether this was only the conversation that took place
then, or whether he added to it his notes of parts of former
conversations with his teacher, I cannot determine. In his account,
Father Zossima's talk goes on without interruption, as though he
told his life to his friends in the form of a story, though there
is no doubt, from other accounts of it, that the conversation that
evening was general. Though the guests did not interrupt Father
Zossima much, yet they too talked, perhaps even told something
themselves. Besides, Father Zossima could not have carried on an
uninterrupted narrative, for he was sometimes gasping for breath,
his voice failed him, and he even lay down to rest on his bed,
though he did not fall asleep and his visitors did not leave their
seats. Once or twice the conversation was interrupted by Father
Paissy's reading the Gospel. It is worthy of note, too, that no one
of them supposed that he would die that night, for on that evening
of his life after his deep sleep in the day he seemed suddenly to
have found new strength, which kept him up through this long
conversation. It was like a last effort of love which gave him
marvellous energy; only for a little time, however, for his life
was cut short immediately.. But of that later. I will only add now
that I have preferred to confine myself to the account given by
Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov. It will be shorter and not so
fatiguing, though, of course, as I must repeat, Alyosha took a
great deal from previous conversations and added them to it. Notes
of the Life of the deceased Priest and Monk, the Elder Zossima,
taken from his own words by Alexey Fyodorovitch Karamazov.

BIOGRAPHICAL NOTES

