(a) Father Zossima's Brother.

Beloved fathers and teachers, I was born in a distant province
in the north, in the town of V. My father was a gentleman by birth,
but of no great consequence or position. He died when I was only
two years old, and I don't remember him at all. He left my mother a
small house built of wood, and a fortune, not large, but sufficient
to keep her and her children in comfort. There were two of us, my
elder brother Markel and I. He was eight years older than I was, of
hasty, irritable temperament, but kind-hearted and never ironical.
He was remarkably silent, especially at home with me, his mother,
and the servants. He did well at school, but did not get on with
his school-fellows, though he never quarrelled, at least so my
mother has told me. Six months before his death, when he was
seventeen, he made friends with a political exile who had been
banished from Moscow to our town for freethinking, and led a
solitary existence there. He was a good scholar who had gained
distinction in philosophy in the university. Something made him
take a fancy to Markel, and he used to ask him to see him. The
young man would spend whole evenings with him during that winter,
till the exile was summoned to Petersburg to take up his post again
at his own request, as he had powerful friends.

It was the beginning of Lent, and Markel would not fast, he was
rude and laughed at it. "That's all silly twaddle, and there is no
God," he said, horrifying my mother, the servants, and me too. For
though I was only nine, I too was aghast at hearing such words. We
had four servants, all serfs. I remember my mother selling one of
the four, the cook Afimya, who was lame and elderly, for sixty
paper roubles, and hiring a free servant to take her place.

In the sixth week in Lent, my brother, who was never strong and
had a tendency to consumption, was taken ill. He was tall but thin
and delicate-looking, and of very pleasing countenance. I suppose
he caught cold, anyway the doctor, who came, soon whispered to my
mother that it was galloping consumption, that he would not live
through the spring. My mother began weeping, and, careful not to
alarm my brother, she entreated him to go to church, to confess and
take the sacrament, as he was still able to move about. This made
him angry, and he said something profane about the church. He grew
thoughtful, however; he guessed at once that he was seriously ill,
and that that was why his mother was begging him to confess and
take the sacrament. He had been aware, indeed, for a long time
past, that he was far from well, and had a year before coolly
observed at dinner to your mother and me, "My life won't be long
among you, I may not live another year," which seemed now like a
prophecy.

Three days passed and Holy Week had come. And on Tuesday morning
my brother began going to church. "I am doing this simply for your
sake, mother, to please and comfort you," he said. My mother wept
with joy and grief. "His end must be near," she thought, "if
there's such a change in him." But he was not able to go to church
long, he took to his bed, so he had to confess and take the
sacrament at home.

It was a late Easter, and the days were bright, fine, and full
of fragrance. I remember he used to cough all night and sleep
badly, but in the morning he dressed and tried to sit up in an
arm-chair. That's how I remember him sitting, sweet and gentle,
smiling, his face bright and joyous, in spite of his illness. A
marvellous change passed over him, his spirit seemed transformed.
The old nurse would come in and say, "Let me light the lamp before
the holy image, my dear." And once he would not have allowed it and
would have blown it out.

"Light it, light it, dear, I was a wretch to have prevented you
doing it. You are praying when you light the lamp, and I am praying
when I rejoice seeing you. So we are praying to the same God."

Those words seemed strange to us, and mother would go to her
room and weep, but when she went in to him she wiped her eyes and
looked cheerful. "Mother, don't weep, darling," he would say, "I've
long to live yet, long to rejoice with you, and life is glad and
joyful."

"Ah, dear boy, how can you talk of joy when you lie feverish at
night, coughing as though you would tear yourself to pieces."

"Don't cry, mother," he would answer, "life is paradise, and we
are all in paradise, but we won't see it; if we would, we should
have heaven on earth the next day."

Everyone wondered at his words, he spoke so strangely and
positively; we were all touched and wept. Friends came to see us.
"Dear ones," he would say to them, "what have I done that you
should love me so, how can you love anyone like me, and how was it
I did not know, I did not appreciate it before?"
