
Indeed, not only his wife but the whole town were down upon me
and blamed me. "It's all your doing," they said. I was silent and
indeed rejoiced at heart, for I saw plainly God's mercy to the man
who had turned against himself and punished himself. I could not
believe in his insanity.

They let me see him at last. he insisted upon saying good-bye to
me. I went in to him and saw at once, that not only his days, but
his hours were numbered. He was weak, yellow, his hands trembled,
he gasped for breath, but his face was full of tender and happy
feeling.

"It is done!" he said. "I've long been yearning to see you. Why
didn't you come?"

I did not tell him that they would not let me see him.

"God has had pity on me and is calling me to Himself. I know I
am dying, but I feel joy and peace for the first time after so many
years. There was heaven in my heart from the moment I had done what
I had to do. Now I dare to love my children and to kiss them.
Neither my wife nor the judges, nor anyone has believed it. My
children will never believe it either. I see in that God's mercy to
them. I shall die, and my name will be without a stain for them.
And now I feel God near, my heart rejoices as in Heavenâ€¦ I have
done my duty."

He could not speak, he gasped for breath, he pressed my hand
warmly, looking fervently at me. We did not talk for long, his wife
kept peeping in at us. But he had time to whisper to me:

"Do you remember how I came back to you that second time, at
midnight? I told you to remember it. You know what I came back for?
I came to kill you!"

I started.

"I went out from you then into the darkness, I wandered about
the streets, struggling with myself. And suddenly I hated you so
that I could hardly bear it. Now, I thought, he is all that binds
me, and he is my judge. I can't refuse to face my punishment
to-morrow, for he knows all. It was not that I was afraid you would
betray me (I never even thought of that), but I thought, 'How can I
look him in the face if I don't confess?' And if you had been at
the other end of the earth, but alive, it would have been all the
same, the thought was unendurable that you were alive knowing
everything and condemning me. I hated you as though you were the
cause, as though you were to blame for everything. I came back to
you then, remembering that you had a dagger lying on your table. I
sat down and asked you to sit down, and for a whole minute I
pondered. If I had killed you, I should have been ruined by that
murder even if I had not confessed the other. But I didn't think
about that at all, and I didn't want to think of it at that moment.
I only hated you and longed to revenge myself on you for
everything. The Lord vanquished the devil in my heart. But let me
tell you, you were never nearer death."

A week later he died. The whole town followed him to the grave.
The chief priest made a speech full of feeling. All lamented the
terrible illness that had cut short his days. But all the town was
up in arms against me after the funeral, and people even refused to
see me. Some, at first a few and afterwards more, began indeed to
believe in the truth of his story, and they visited me and
questioned me with great interest and eagerness, for man loves to
see the downfall and disgrace of the righteous. But I held my
tongue, and very shortly after, I left the town, and five months
later by God's grace I entered the safe and blessed path, praising
the unseen finger which had guided me so clearly to it. But I
remember in my prayer to this day, the servant of God, Mihail, who
suffered so greatly.

