


Chapter

1
The Breath of Corruption


THE body of Father Zossima was prepared for burial according to
the established Ritual. As is well known, the bodies of dead monks
and hermits are not washed. In the words of the Church Ritual: "If
any one of the monks depart in the Lord, the monk designated (that
is, whose office it is) shall wipe the body with warm water, making
first the sign of the cross with a sponge on the forehead of the
deceased, on the breast, on the hands and feet and on the knees,
and that is enough." All this was done by Father Paissy, who then
clothed the deceased in his monastic garb and wrapped him in his
cloak, which was, according to custom, somewhat slit to allow of
its being folded about him in the form of a cross. On his head he
put a hood with an eight-cornered cross. The hood was left open and
the dead man's face was covered with black gauze. In his hands was
put an ikon of the Saviour. Towards morning he was put in the
coffin which had been made ready long before. It was decided to
leave the coffin all day in the cell, in the larger room in which
the elder used to receive his visitors and fellow monks. As the
deceased was a priest and monk of the strictest rule, the Gospel,
not the Psalter, had to be read over his body by monks in holy
orders. The reading was begun by Father Iosif immediately after the
requiem service. Father Paissy desired later on to read the Gospel
all day and night over his dead friend, but for the present he, as
well as the Father Superintendent of the Hermitage, was very busy
and occupied, for something extraordinary, an unheard-of, even
"unseemly" excitement and impatient expectation began to be
apparent in the monks, and the visitors from the monastery hostels,
and the crowds of people flocking from the town. And as time went
on, this grew more and more marked. Both the Superintendent and
Father Paissy did their utmost to calm the general bustle and
agitation.

When it was fully daylight, some people began bringing their
sick, in most cases children, with them from the town- as though
they had been waiting expressly for this moment to do so, evidently
persuaded that the dead elder's remains had a power of healing,
which would be immediately made manifest in accordance with their
faith. It was only then apparent how unquestionably everyone in our
town had accepted Father Zossima during his lifetime as a great
saint. And those who came were far from being all of the humbler
classes.

This intense expectation on the part of believers displayed with
such haste, such openness, even with impatience and almost
insistence, impressed Father Paissy as unseemly. Though he had long
foreseen something of the sort, the actual manifestation of the
feeling was beyond anything he had looked for. When he came across
any of the monks who displayed this excitement, Father Paissy began
to reprove them. "Such immediate expectation of something
extraordinary," he said, "shows a levity, possible to worldly
people but unseemly in us."

But little attention was paid him and Father Paissy noticed it
uneasily. Yet he himself (if the whole truth must be told),
secretly at the bottom of his heart, cherished almost the same
hopes and could not but be aware of it, though he was indignant at
the too impatient expectation around him, and saw in it
light-mindedness and vanity. Nevertheless, it was particularly
unpleasant to him to meet certain persons, whose presence aroused
in him great misgivings. In the crowd in the dead man's cell he
noticed with inward aversion (for which he immediately reproached
himself) the presence of Rakitin and of the monk from Obdorsk, who
was still staying in the monastery. Of both of them Father Paissy
felt for some reason suddenly suspicious- though, indeed, he might
well have felt the same about others.

The monk from Obdorsk was conspicuous as the most fussy in the
excited crowd. He was to be seen everywhere; everywhere he was
asking questions, everywhere he was listening, on all sides he was
whispering with a peculiar, mysterious air. His expression showed
the greatest impatience and even a sort of irritation.

As for Rakitin, he, as appeared later, had come so early to the
hermitage at the special request of Madame Hohlakov. As soon as
that good-hearted but weak-minded woman, who could not herself have
been admitted to the hermitage, waked and heard of the death of
Father Zossima, she was overtaken with such intense curiosity that
she promptly despatched Rakitin to the hermitage, to keep a careful
look out and report to her by letter ever half hour or so
"everything that takes place." She regarded Rakitin as a most
religious and devout young man. He was particularly clever in
getting round people and assuming whatever part he thought most to
their taste, if he detected the slightest advantage to himself from
doing so.

It was a bright, clear day, and many of the visitors were
thronging about the tombs, which were particularly numerous round
the church and scattered here and there about the hermitage. As he
walked round the hermitage, Father Paissy remembered Alyosha and
that he had not seen him for some time, not since the night. And he
had no sooner thought of him than he at once noticed him in the
farthest corner of the hermitage garden, sitting on the tombstone
of a monk who had been famous long ago for his saintliness. He sat
with his back to the hermitage and his face to the wall, and seemed
to be hiding behind the tombstone. Going up to him, Father Paissy
saw that he was weeping quietly but bitterly, with his face hidden
in his hands, and that his whole frame was shaking with sobs.
Father Paissy stood over him for a little.
