It was resolved to act with energy. The deputy police inspector
of the town was commissioned to take four witnesses, to enter
Fyodor Pavlovitch's house and there to open an inquiry on the spot,
according to the regular forms, which I will not go into here. The
district doctor, a zealous man, new to his work, almost insisted on
accompanying the police captain, the prosecutor, and the
investigating lawyer.

I will note briefly that Fyodor Pavlovitch was found to be quite
dead, with his skull battered in. But with what? Most likely with
the same weapon with which Grigory had been attacked. And
immediately that weapon was found, Grigory, to whom all possible
medical assistance was at once given, described in a weak and
breaking voice how he had been knocked down. They began looking
with a lantern by the fence and found the brass pestle dropped in a
most conspicuous place on the garden path. There were no signs of
disturbance in the room where Fyodor Pavlovitch was lying. But by
the bed, behind the screen, they picked up from the floor a big and
thick envelope with the inscription: "A present of three thousand
roubles for my angel Grushenka, if she is willing to come." And
below had been added by Fyodor Pavlovitch, "For my little chicken."
There were three seals of red sealing-wax on the envelope, but it
had been torn open and was empty: the money had been removed. They
found also on the floor a piece of narrow pink ribbon, with which
the envelope had been tied up.

One piece of Pyotr Ilyitch's evidence made a great impression on
the prosecutor and the investigating magistrate, namely, his idea
that Dmitri Fyodorovitch would shoot himself before daybreak, that
he had resolved to do so, had spoken of it to Ilyitch, had taken
the pistols, loaded them before him, written a letter, put it in
his pocket, etc. When Pyotr Ilyitch, though still unwilling to
believe in it, threatened to tell someone so as to prevent the
suicide, Mitya had answered grinning: "You'll be too late." So they
must make haste to Mokroe to find the criminal, before he really
did shoot himself.

"That's clear, that's clear!" repeated the prosecutor in great
excitement. "That's just the way with mad fellows like that: 'I
shall kill myself to-morrow, so I'll make merry till I die!'"

The story of how he had bought the wine and provisions excited
the prosecutor more than ever.

"Do you remember the fellow that murdered a merchant called
Olsufyev, gentlemen? He stole fifteen hundred, went at once to have
his hair curled, and then, without even hiding the money, carrying
it almost in his hand in the same way, he went off to the
girls."

All were delayed, however, by the inquiry, the search, and the
formalities, etc., in the house of Fyodor Pavlovitch. It all took
time and so, two hours before starting, they sent on ahead to
Mokroe the officer of the rural police, Mavriky Mavrikyevitch
Schmertsov, who had arrived in the town the morning before to get
his pay. He was instructed to avoid raising the alarm when he
reached Mokroe, but to keep constant watch over the "criminal" till
the arrival of the proper authorities, to procure also witnesses
for the arrest, police constables, and so on. Mavriky Mavrikyevitch
did as he was told, preserving his incognito, and giving no one but
his old acquaintance, Trifon Borissovitch, the slightest hint of
his secret business. He had spoken to him just before Mitya met the
landlord in the balcony, looking for him in the dark, and noticed
at once a change in Trifon Borissovitch's face and voice. So
neither Mitya nor anyone else knew that he was being watched. The
box with the pistols had been carried off by Trifon Borissovitch
and put in a suitable place. Only after four o'clock, almost at
sunrise, all the officials, the police captain, the prosecutor, the
investigating lawyer, drove up in two carriages, each drawn by
three horses. The doctor remained at Fyodor Pavlovitch's to make a
post-mortem next day on the body. But he was particularly
interested in the condition of the servant, Smerdyakov.

"Such violent and protracted epileptic fits, recurring
continually for twenty-four hours, are rarely to be met with, and
are of interest to science," he declared enthusiastically to his
companions, and as they left they laughingly congratulated him on
his find. The prosecutor and the investigating lawyer distinctly
remembered the doctor's saying that Smerdyakov could not outlive
the night.

After these long, but I think necessary explanations, we will
return to that moment of our tale at which we broke off.




