


Chapter

4
The Second Ordeal


"YOU don't know how you encourage us, Dmitri Fyodorovitch, by
your readiness to answer," said Nikolay Parfenovitch, with an
animated air, and obvious satisfaction beaming in his very
prominent, short-sighted, light grey eyes, from which he had
removed his spectacles a moment before. "And you have made a very
just remark about the mutual confidence, without which it is
sometimes positively impossible to get on in cases of such
importance, if the suspected party really hopes and desires to
defend himself and is in a position to do so. We on our side, will
do everything in our power, and you can see for yourself how we are
conducting the case. You approve, Ippolit Kirillovitch?" He turned
to the prosecutor.

"Oh, undoubtedly," replied the prosecutor. His tone was somewhat
cold, compared with Nikolay Parfenovitch's impulsiveness.

I will note once for all that Nikolay Parfenovitch, who had but
lately arrived among us, had from the first felt marked respect for
Ippolit Kirillovitch, our prosecutor, and had become almost his
bosom friend. He was almost the only person who put implicit faith
in Ippolit Kirillovitch's extraordinary talents as a psychologist
and orator and in the justice of his grievance. He had heard of him
in Petersburg. On the other hand, young Nikolay Parfenovitch was
the only person in the whole world whom our "unappreciated"
prosecutor genuinely liked. On their way to Mokroe they had time to
come to an understanding about the present case. And now as they
sat at the table, the sharp-witted junior caught and interpreted
every indication on his senior colleague's face- half a word, a
glance, or a wink.

"Gentlemen, only let me tell my own story and don't interrupt me
with trivial questions and I'll tell you everything in a moment,"
said Mitya excitedly.

"Excellent! Thank you. But before we proceed to listen to your
communication, will you allow me to inquire as to another little
fact of great interest to us? I mean the ten roubles you borrowed
yesterday at about five o'clock on the security of your pistols,
from your friend, Pyotr Ilyitch Perhotin."

"I pledged them, gentlemen. I pledged them for ten roubles. What
more? That's all about it. As soon as I got back to town I pledged
them."

"You got back to town? Then you had been out of town?"
