
"Yes, I went a journey of forty versts into the country. Didn't
you know?"

The prosecutor and Nikolay Parfenovitch exchanged glances.

"Well, how would it be if you began your story with a systematic
description of all you did yesterday, from the morning onwards?
Allow us, for instance, to inquire why you were absent from the
town, and just when you left and when you came back- all those
facts."

"You should have asked me like that from the beginning," cried
Mitya, laughing aloud, "and, if you like, we won't begin from
yesterday, but from the morning of the day before; then you'll
understand how, why, and where I went. I went the day before
yesterday, gentlemen, to a merchant of the town, called Samsonov,
to borrow three thousand roubles from him on safe security. It was
a pressing matter, gentlemen, it was a sudden necessity."

"Allow me to interrupt you," the prosecutor put in politely.
"Why were you in such pressing need for just that sum, three
thousand?"

"Oh, gentlemen, you needn't go into details, how, when and why,
and why just so much money, and not so much, and all that
rigmarole. Why, it'll run to three volumes, and then you'll want an
epilogue!" Mitya said all this with the good-natured but impatient
familiarity of a man who is anxious to tell the whole truth and is
full of the best intentions.

"Gentlemen!"- he corrected himself hurriedly- "don't be vexed
with me for my restiveness, I beg you again. Believe me once more,
I feel the greatest respect for you and understand the true
position of affairs. Don't think I'm drunk. I'm quite sober now.
And, besides, being drunk would be no hindrance. It's with me, you
know, like the saying: 'When he is sober, he is a fool; when he is
drunk, he is a wise man.' Ha ha! But I see, gentlemen, it's not the
proper thing to make jokes to you, till we've had our explanation,
I mean. And I've my own dignity to keep up, too. I quite understand
the difference for the moment. I am, after all, in the position of
a criminal, and so, far from being on equal terms with you. And
it's your business to watch me. I can't expect you to pat me on the
head for what I did to Grigory, for one can't break old men's heads
with impunity. I suppose you'll put me away for him for six months,
or a year perhaps, in a house of correction. I don't know what the
punishment is- but it will be without loss of the rights of my
rank, without loss of my rank, won't it? So you see, gentlemen, I
understand the distinction between usâ€¦ . But you must see that you
could puzzle God Himself with such questions. 'How did you step?
Where did you step? When did you step? And on what did you step?' I
shall get mixed up, if you go on like this, and you will put it all
down against me. And what will that lead to? To nothing! And even
if it's nonsense I'm talking now, let me finish, and you,
gentlemen, being men of honour and refinement, will forgive me!
I'll finish by asking you, gentlemen, to drop that conventional
method of questioning. I mean, beginning from some miserable
trifle, how I got up, what I had for breakfast, how I spat, and
where I spat, and so distracting the attention of the criminal,
suddenly stun him with an overwhelming question, 'Whom did you
murder? Whom did you rob?' Ha-ha! That's your regulation method,
that's where all your cunning comes in. You can put peasants off
their guard like that, but not me. I know the tricks. I've been in
the service, too. Ha ha ha! You're not angry, gentlemen? You
forgive my impertinence?" he cried, looking at them with a
good-nature that was almost surprising. "It's only Mitya Karamazov,
you know, so you can overlook it. It would be inexcusable in a
sensible man; but you can forgive it in Mitya. Ha ha!"

Nikolay Parfenovitch listened, and laughed too. Though the
prosecutor did not laugh, he kept his eyes fixed keenly on Mitya,
as though anxious not to miss the least syllable, the slightest
movement, the smallest twitch of any feature of his face.

"That's how we have treated you from the beginning," said
Nikolay Parfenovitch, still laughing. "We haven't tried to put you
out by asking how you got up in the morning and what you had for
breakfast. We began, indeed, with questions of the greatest
importance."

"I understand. I saw it and appreciated it, and I appreciate
still more your present kindness to me, an unprecedented kindness,
worthy of your noble hearts. We three here are gentlemen and let
everything be on the footing of mutual confidence between educated,
well-bred people, who have the common bond of noble birth and
honour. In any case, allow me to look upon you as my best friends
at this moment of my life, at this moment when my honour is
assailed. That's no offence to you, gentlemen, is it?"

