
"You may ask any question," the prosecutor replied with frigid
severity, "any question relating to the facts of the case, and we
are, I repeat, bound to answer every inquiry you make. We found the
servant Smerdyakov, concerning whom you inquire, lying unconscious
in his bed, in an epileptic fit of extreme severity, that had
recurred, possibly, ten times. The doctor who was with us told us,
after seeing him, that he may possibly not outlive the night."

"Well, if that's so, the devil must have killed him," broke
suddenly from Mitya, as though until that moment had been asking
himself: "Was it Smerdyakov or not?"

"We will come back to this later," Nikolay Parfenovitch decided.
"Now wouldn't you like to continue your statement?"

Mitya asked for a rest. His request was courteously granted.
After resting, he went on with his story. But he was evidently
depressed. He was exhausted, mortified, and morally shaken. To make
things worse the prosecutor exasperated him, as though
intentionally, by vexatious interruptions about "trifling points."
Scarcely had Mitya described how, sitting on the wall, he had
struck Grigory on the head with the pestle, while the old man had
hold of his left leg, and how he then jumped down to look at him,
when the prosecutor stopped him to ask him to describe exactly how
he was sitting on the wall. Mitya was surprised.

"Oh, I was sitting like this, astride, one leg on one side of
the wall and one on the other."

"And the pestle?"

"The pestle was in my hand."

"Not in your pocket? Do you remember that precisely? Was it a
violent blow you gave him?"

"It must have been a violent one. But why do you ask?"

"Would you mind sitting on the chair just as you sat on the wall
then and showing us just how you moved your arm, and in what
direction?"

