"May I look out of window?" he asked Nikolay Parfenovitch,
suddenly.

"Oh, as much as you like," the latter replied.

Mitya got up and went to the window… . The rain lashed against
its little greenish panes. He could see the muddy road just below
the house, and farther away, in the rain and mist, a row of poor,
black, dismal huts, looking even blacker and poorer in the rain.
Mitya thought of "Phoebus the golden-haired, and how he had meant
to shoot himself at his first ray. "Perhaps it would be even better
on a morning like this," he thought with a smile, and suddenly,
flinging his hand downwards, he turned to his "torturers."

"Gentlemen," he cried, "I see that I am lost! But she? Tell me
about her, I beseech you. Surely she need not be ruined with me?
She's innocent, you know, she was out of her mind when she cried
last night 'It's all my fault!' She's done nothing, nothing! I've
been grieving over her all night as I sat with you… . Can't you,
won't you tell me what you are going to do with her now?"

"You can set your mind quite at rest on that score, Dmitri
Fyodorovitch," the prosecutor answered at once, with evident
alacrity. "We have, so far, no grounds for interfering with the
lady in whom you are so interested. I trust that it may be the same
in the later development of the case… . On the contrary, we'll do
everything that lies in our power in that matter. Set your mind
completely at rest."

"Gentlemen, I thank you. I knew that you were honest,
straightforward people in spite of everything. You've taken a load
off my heart… . Well, what are we to do now? I'm ready."

"Well, we ought to make haste. We must pass to examining the
witnesses without delay. That must be done in your presence and
therefore-"

"Shouldn't we have some tea first?" interposed Nikolay
Parfenovitch, "I think we've deserved it!"

They decided that if tea were ready downstairs (Mihail
Makarovitch had, no doubt, gone down to get some) they would have a
glass and then "go on and on," putting off their proper breakfast
until a more favourable opportunity. Tea really was ready below,
and was soon brought up. Mitya at first refused the glass that
Nikolay Parfenovitch politely offered him, but afterwards he asked
for it himself and drank it greedily. He looked surprisingly
exhausted. It might have been supposed from his Herculean strength
that one night of carousing, even accompanied by the most violent
emotions, could have had little effect on him. But he felt that he
could hardly hold his head up, and from time to time all the
objects about him seemed heaving and dancing before his eyes. "A
little more and I shall begin raving," he said to himself.




