"Why, they're poor people, burnt out. They've no bread. They're
begging because they've been burnt out."

"No, no," Mitya, as it were, still did not understand. "Tell me
why it is those poor mothers stand there? Why are people poor? Why
is the babe poor? Why is the steppe barren? Why don't they hug each
other and kiss? Why don't they sing songs of joy? Why are they so
dark from black misery? Why don't they feed the babe?"

And he felt that, though his questions were unreasonable and
senseless, yet he wanted to ask just that, and he had to ask it
just in that way. And he felt that a passion of pity, such as he
had never known before, was rising in his heart, that he wanted to
cry, that he wanted to do something for them all, so that the babe
should weep no more, so that the dark-faced, dried-up mother should
not weep, that no one should shed tears again from that moment, and
he wanted to do it at once, at once, regardless of all obstacles,
with all the recklessness of the Karamazovs.

"And I'm coming with you. I won't leave you now for the rest of
my life, I'm coming with you", he heard close beside him
Grushenka's tender voice, thrilling with emotion. And his heart
glowed, and he struggled forward towards the light, and he longed
to live, to live, to go on and on, towards the new, beckoning
light, and to hasten, hasten, now, at once! "What! Where?" he
exclaimed opening his eyes, and sitting up on the chest, as though
he had revived from a swoon, smiling brightly. Nikolay Parfenovitch
was standing over him, suggesting that he should hear the protocol
read aloud and sign it. Mitya guessed that he had been asleep an
hour or more, but he did not hear Nikolay Parfenovitch. He was
suddenly struck by the fact that there was a pillow under his head,
which hadn't been there when he had leant back, exhausted, on the
chest.

"Who put that pillow under my head? Who was so kind?" he cried,
with a sort of ecstatic gratitude, and tears in his voice, as
though some great kindness had been shown him.

He never found out who this kind man was; perhaps one of the
peasant witnesses, or Nikolay Parfenovitch's little secretary, had
compassionately thought to put a pillow under his head; but his
whole soul was quivering with tears. He went to the table and said
that he would sign whatever they liked.

"I've had a good dream, gentlemen," he said in a strange voice,
with a new light, as of joy, in his face.




