
"What, don't you believe in God?"

"Oh, I've nothing against God. Of course, God is only a
hypothesis, but… I admit that He is needed… for the order of the
universe and all that… and that if there were no God He would have
to be invented," added Kolya, beginning to blush. He suddenly
fancied that Alyosha might think he was trying to show off his
knowledge and to prove that he was "grown up." "I haven't the
slightest desire to show off my knowledge to him," Kolya thought
indignantly. And all of a sudden he felt horribly annoyed.

"I must confess I can't endure entering on such discussions," he
said with a final air. "It's possible for one who doesn't believe
in God to love mankind, don't you think so? Voltaire didn't believe
in God and loved mankind?" ("I am at it again," he thought to
himself.)

"Voltaire believed in God, though not very much, I think, and I
don't think he loved mankind very much either," said Alyosha
quietly, gently, and quite naturally, as though he were talking to
someone of his own age, or even older. Kolya was particularly
struck by Alyosha's apparent diffidence about his opinion of
Voltaire. He seemed to be leaving the question for him, little
Kolya, to settle.

"Have you read Voltaire?" Alyosha finished.

"No, not to say read… . But I've read Candide in the Russian
translation… in an absurd, grotesque, old translation.. (At it
again! again!)"

"And did you understand it?"

"Oh, yes, everything… . That is… Why do you suppose I shouldn't
understand it? There's a lot of nastiness in it, of course… . Of
course I can understand that it's a philosophical novel and written
to advocate an idea… ." Kolya was getting mixed by now. "I am a
Socialist, Karamazov, I am an incurable Socialist," he announced
suddenly, apropos of nothing.

"A Socialist?" laughed Alyosha. "But when have you had time to
become one? Why, I thought you were only thirteen?"

Kolya winced.

