"Alexey Fyodorovitch," he said, with a cold smile, "I can't
endure prophets and epileptics- messengers from God especially- and
you know that only too well. I break off all relations with you
from this moment and probably for ever. I beg you to leave me at
this turning. It's the way to your lodgings, too. You'd better be
particularly careful not to come to me to-day! Do you hear?"

He turned and walked on with a firm step, not looking back.

"Brother," Alyosha called after him, "if anything happens to you
to-day, turn to me before anyone!"

But Ivan made no reply. Alyosha stood under the lamp-post at the
cross roads, till Ivan had vanished into the darkness. Then he
turned and walked slowly homewards. Both Alyosha and Ivan were
living in lodgings; neither of them was willing to live in Fyodor
Pavlovitch's empty house. Alyosha had a furnished room in the house
of some working people. Ivan lived some distance from him. He had
taken a roomy and fairly comfortable lodge attached to a fine house
that belonged to a well-to-do lady, the widow of an official. But
his only attendant was a deaf and rheumatic old crone who went to
bed at six o'clock every evening and got up at six in the morning.
Ivan had become remarkably indifferent to his comforts of late, and
very fond of being alone. He did everything for himself in the one
room he lived in, and rarely entered any of the other rooms in his
abode.

He reached the gate of the house and had his hand on the bell,
when he suddenly stopped. He felt that he was trembling all over
with anger. Suddenly he let go of the bell, turned back with a
curse, and walked with rapid steps in the opposite direction. He
walked a mile and a half to a tiny, slanting, wooden house, almost
a hut, where Marya Kondratyevna, the neighbour who used to come to
Fyodor Pavlovitch's kitchen for soup and to whom Smerdyakov had
once sung his songs and played on the guitar, was now lodging. She
had sold their little house, and was now living here with her
mother. Smerdyakov, who was ill- almost dying-had been with them
ever since Fyodor Pavlovitch's death. It was to him Ivan was going
now, drawn by a sudden and irresistible prompting.




