"No, no, no!" Ivan cried suddenly. "It was not a dream. He was
here; he was sitting here, on that sofa. When you knocked at the
window, I threw a glass at him… this one. Wait a minute. I was
asleep last time, but this dream was not a dream. It has happened
before. I have dreams now, Alyosha… yet they are not dreams, but
reality. I walk about, talk and see… though I am asleep. But he was
sitting here, on that sofa there… . He is frightfully stupid,
Alyosha, frightfully stupid." Ivan laughed suddenly and began
pacing about the room.

"Who is stupid? Of whom are you talking, brother?" Alyosha asked
anxiously again.

"The devil! He's taken to visiting me. He's been here twice,
almost three times. He taunted me with being angry at his being a
simple devil and not Satan, with scorched wings, in thunder and
lightning. But he is not Satan: that's a lie. He is an impostor. He
is simply a devil- a paltry, trivial devil. He goes to the baths.
If you undressed him, you'd be sure to find he had a tail, long and
smooth like a Danish dog's, a yard long, dun colour… . Alyosha, you
are cold. You've been in the snow. Would you like some tea? What?
Is it cold? Shall I tell her to bring some? C'est a ne pas mettre
un chien dehors… "

Alyosha ran to the washing-stand, wetted the towel, persuaded
Ivan to sit down again, and put the wet towel round his head. He
sat down beside him.

"What were you telling me just now about Lise?" Ivan began
again. (He was becoming very talkative.) "I like Lise. I said
something nasty about her. It was a lie. I like her… I am afraid
for Katya to-morrow. I am more afraid of her than of anything. On
account of the future. She will cast me off to-morrow and trample
me under foot. She thinks that I am ruining Mitya from jealousy on
her account! Yes, she thinks that! But it's not so. To-morrow the
cross, but not the gallows. No, I shan't hang myself. Do you know,
I can never commit suicide, Alyosha. Is it because I am base? I am
not a coward. Is it from love of life? How did I know that
Smerdyakov had hanged himself? Yes, it was he told me so."

"And you are quite convinced that there has been someone here?"
asked Alyosha.

"Yes, on that sofa in the corner. You would have driven him
away. You did drive him away: he disappeared when you arrived. I
love your face, Alyosha. Did you know that I loved your face? And
he is myself, Alyosha. All that's base in me, all that's mean and
contemptible. Yes, I am a romantic. He guessed it… though it's a
libel. He is frightfully stupid; but it's to his advantage. He has
cunning, animal cunning- he knew how to infuriate me. He kept
taunting me with believing in him, and that was how he made me
listen to him. He fooled me like a boy. He told me a great deal
that was true about myself, though. I should never have owned it to
myself. Do you know, Alyosha," Ivan added in an intensely earnest
and confidential tone, "I should be awfully glad to think that it
was he and not I."

"He has worn you out," said Alyosha, looking compassionately at
his brother.

"He's been teasing me. And you know he does it so cleverly, so
cleverly. 'Conscience! What is conscience? I make it up for myself.
Why am I tormented by it? From habit. From the universal habit of
mankind for the seven thousand years. So let us give it up, and we
shall be gods.' It was he said that, it was he said that!"

"And not you, not you?" Alyosha could not help crying, looking
frankly at his brother. "Never mind him, anyway; have done with him
and forget him. And let him take with him all that you curse now,
and never come back!"

"Yes, but he is spiteful. He laughed at me. He was impudent,
Alyosha," Ivan said, with a shudder of offence. "But he was unfair
to me, unfair to me about lots of things. He told lies about me to
my face. 'Oh, you are going to perform an act of heroic virtue: to
confess you murdered your father, that the valet murdered him at
your instigation.'"
