
"I cannot positively assert," the prosecutor continued, "that
the prisoner fully intended to murder his father before that
incident. Yet the idea had several times presented itself to him,
and he had deliberated on it- for that we have facts, witnesses,
and his own words. I confess, gentlemen of the jury," he added,
"that till to-day I have been uncertain whether to attribute to the
prisoner conscious premeditation. I was firmly convinced that he
had pictured the fatal moment beforehand, but had only pictured it,
contemplating it as a possibility. He had not definitely considered
when and how he might commit the crime.

"But I was only uncertain till to-day, till that fatal document
was presented to the court just now. You yourselves heard that
young lady's exclamation, 'It is the plan, the programme of the
murder!' That is how she defined that miserable, drunken letter of
the unhappy prisoner. And, in fact, from that letter we see that
the whole fact of the murder was premeditated. It was written two
days before, and so we know now for a fact that, forty-eight hours
before the perpetration of his terrible design, the prisoner swore
that, if he could not get money next day, he would murder his
father in order to take the envelope with the notes from under his
pillow, as soon as Ivan had left. 'As soon as Ivan had gone away'-
you hear that; so he had thought everything out, weighing every
circumstance, and he carried it all out just as he had written it.
The proof of premeditation is conclusive; the crime must have been
committed for the sake of the money, that is stated clearly, that
is written and signed. The prisoner does not deny his
signature.

"I shall be told he was drunk when he wrote it. But that does
not diminish the value of the letter, quite the contrary; he wrote
when drunk what he had planned when sober. Had he not planned it
when sober, he would not have written it when drunk. I shall be
asked: Then why did he talk about it in taverns? A man who
premeditates such a crime is silent and keeps it to himself. Yes,
but he talked about it before he had formed a plan, when he had
only the desire, only the impulse to it. Afterwards he talked less
about it. On the evening he wrote that letter at the Metropolis
tavern, contrary to his custom he was silent, though he had been
drinking. He did not play billiards, he sat in a corner, talked to
no one. He did indeed turn a shopman out of his seat, but that was
done almost unconsciously, because he could never enter a tavern
without making a disturbance. It is true that after he had taken
the final decision, he must have felt apprehensive that he had
talked too much about his design beforehand, and that this might
lead to his arrest and prosecution afterwards. But there was
nothing for it; he could not take his words back, but his luck had
served him before, it would serve him again. He believed in his
star, you know! I must confess, too, that he did a great deal to
avoid the fatal catastrophe. 'To-morrow I shall try and borrow the
money from everyone,' as he writes in his peculiar language,' and
if they won't give it to me, there will be bloodshed.'"

Here Ippolit Kirillovitch passed to a detailed description of
all Mitya's efforts to borrow the money. He described his visit to
Samsonov, his journey to Lyagavy. "Harassed, jeered at, hungry,
after selling his watch to pay for the journey (though he tells us
he had fifteen hundred roubles on him- a likely story), tortured by
jealousy at having left the object of his affections in the town,
suspecting that she would go to Fyodor Pavlovitch in his absense,
he returned at last to the town, to find, to his joy, that she had
not been near his father. He accompanied her himself to her
protector. (Strange to say, he doesn't seem to have been jealous of
Samsonov, which is psychologically interesting.) Then he hastens
back to his ambush in the back gardens, and then learns that
Smerdyakov is in a fit, that the other servant is ill- the coast is
clear and he knows the 'signals'- what a temptation! Still he
resists it; he goes off to a lady who has for some time been
residing in the town, and who is highly esteemed among us, Madame
Hohlakov. That lady, who had long watched his career with
compassion, gave him the most judicious advice, to give up his
dissipated life, his unseemly love-affair, the waste of his youth
and vigour in pot-house debauchery, and to set off to Siberia to
the gold mines: 'that would be an outlet for your turbulent
energies, your romantic character, your thirst for adventure.'"

After describing the result of this conversation and the moment
when the prisoner learnt that Grushenka had not remained at
Samsonov's, the sudden frenzy of the luckless man worn out with
jealousy and nervous exhaustion, at the thought that she had
deceived him and was now with his father, Ippolit Kirillovitch
concluded by dwelling upon the fatal influence of chance. "Had the
maid told him that her mistress was at Mokroe with her former
lover, nothing would have happened. But she lost her head, she
could only swear and protest her ignorance, and if the prisoner did
not kill her on the spot, it was only because he flew in pursuit of
his false mistress.

"But note, frantic as he was, he took with him a brass pestle.
Why that? Why not some other weapon? But since he had been
contemplating his plan and preparing himself for it for a whole
month, he would snatch up anything like a weapon that caught his
eye. He had realised for a month past that any object of the kind
would serve as a weapon, so he instantly, without hesitation,
recognised that it would serve his purpose. So it was by no means
unconsciously, by no means involuntarily, that he snatched up that
fatal pestle. And then we find him in his father's garden- the
coast is clear, there are no witnesses, darkness and jealousy. The
suspicion that she was there, with him, with his rival, in his
arms, and perhaps laughing at him at that moment- took his breath
away. And it was not mere suspicion, the deception was open,
obvious. She must be there, in that lighted room, she must be
behind the screen; and the unhappy man would have us believe that
he stole up to the window, peeped respectfully in, and discreetly
withdrew, for fear something terrible and immoral should happen.
And he tries to persuade us of that, us, who understand his
character, who know his state of mind at the moment, and that he
knew the signals by which he could at once enter the house." At
this point Ippolit Kirillovitch broke off to discuss exhaustively
the suspected connection of Smerdyakov with the murder. He did this
very circumstantially, and everyone realised that, although he
professed to despise that suspicion, he thought the subject of
great importance.




