


Chapter

8
A
Treatise on Smerdyakov


"TO begin with, what was the source of this suspicion?" (Ippolit
Kirillovitch began). "The first person who cried out that
Smerdyakov had committed the murder was the prisoner himself at the
moment of his arrest, yet from that time to this he had not brought
forward a single fact to confirm the charge, nor the faintest
suggestion of a fact. The charge is confirmed by three persons
only- the two brothers of the prisoner and Madame Svyetlov. The
elder of these brothers expressed his suspicions only to-day, when
he was undoubtedly suffering from brain fever. But we know that for
the last two months he has completely shared our conviction of his
brother's guilt and did not attempt to combat that idea. But of
that later. The younger brother has admitted that he has not the
slightest fact to support his notion of Smerdyakov's guilt, and has
only been led to that conclusion from the prisoner's own words and
the expression of his face. Yes, that astounding piece of evidence
has been brought forward twice to-day by him. Madame Svyetslov was
even more astounding. 'What the prisoner tells you, you must
believe; he is not a man to tell a lie.' That is all the evidence
against Smerdyakov produced by these three persons. who are all
deeply concerned in the prisoner's fate. And yet the theory of
Smerdyakov's guilt has been noised about, has been and is still
maintained. Is it credible? Is it conceivable?"

Here Ippolit Kirillovitch thought it necessary to describe the
personality of Smerdyakov, "who had cut short his life in a fit of
insanity." He depicted him as a man of weak intellect, with a
smattering of education, who had been thrown off his balance by
philosophical ideas above his level and certain modern theories of
duty, which he learnt in practice from the reckless life of his
master, who was also perhaps his father- Fyodor Pavlovitch; and,
theoretically, from various strange philosophical conversations
with his master's elder son, Ivan Fyodorovitch, who readily
indulged in this diversion, probably feeling dull or wishing to
amuse himself at the valet's expense. "He spoke to me himself of
his spiritual condition during the last few days at his father's
house," Ippolit Kirillovitch explained; "but others too have borne
witness to it- the prisoner himself, his brother, and the servant
Grigory- that is, all who knew him well.

"Moreover, Smerdyakov, whose health was shaken by his attacks of
epilepsy, had not the courage of a chicken. 'He fell at my feet and
kissed them,' the prisoner himself has told us, before he realised
how damaging such a statement was to himself. 'He is an epileptic
chicken,' he declared about him in his characteristic language. And
the prisoner chose him for his confidant (we have his own word for
it) and he frightened him into consenting at last to act as a spy
for him. In that capacity he deceived his master, revealing to the
prisoner the existence of the envelope with the notes in it and the
signals by means of which he could get into the house. How could he
help telling him, indeed? 'He would have killed me, I could see
that he would have killed me,' he said at the inquiry, trembling
and shaking even before us, though his tormentor was by that time
arrested and could do him no harm. 'He suspected me at every
instant. In fear and trembling I hastened to tell him every secret
to pacify him, that he might see that I had not deceived him and
let me off alive.' Those are his own words. I wrote them down and I
remember them. 'When he began shouting at me, I would fall on my
knees.'

"He was naturally very honest and enjoyed the complete
confidence of his master, ever since he had restored him some money
he had lost. So it may be supposed that the poor fellow suffered
pangs of remorse at having deceived his master, whom he loved as
his benefactor. Persons severely afflicted with epilepsy are, so
the most skilful doctors tell us, always prone to continual and
morbid self-reproach. They worry over their 'wickedness,' they are
tormented by pangs of conscience, often entirely without cause;
they exaggerate and often invent all sorts of faults and crimes.
And here we have a man of that type who had really been driven to
wrongdoing by terror and intimidation.

"He had, besides, a strong presentiment that something terrible
would be the outcome of the situation that was developing before
his eyes. When Ivan Fyodorovitch was leaving for Moscow, just
before the catastrophe, Smerdyakov besought him to remain, though
he was too timid to tell him plainly what he feared. He confined
himself to hints, but his hints were not understood.

"It must be observed that he looked on Ivan Fyodorovitch as a
protector, whose presence in the house was a guarantee that no harm
would come to pass. Remember the phrase in Dmitri Karamazov's
drunken letter, 'I shall kill the old man, if only Ivan goes away.'
So Ivan Fyodorovitch's presence seemed to everyone a guarantee of
peace and order in the house.

"But he went away, and within an hour of his young master's
departure Smerdyakov was taken with an epileptic fit. But that's
perfectly intelligible. Here I must mention that Smerdyakov,
oppressed by terror and despair of a sort, had felt during those
last few days that one of the fits from which he had suffered
before at moments of strain, might be coming upon him again. The
day and hour of such an attack cannot, of course, be foreseen, but
every epileptic can feel beforehand that he is likely to have one.
So the doctors tell us. And so, as soon as Ivan Fyodorovitch had
driven out of the yard, Smerdyakov, depressed by his lonely and
unprotected position, went to the cellar. He went down the stairs
wondering if he would have a fit or not, and what if it were to
come upon him at once. And that very apprehension, that very
wonder, brought on the spasm in his throat that always precedes
such attacks, and he fell unconscious into the cellar. And in this
perfectly natural occurrence people try to detect a suspicion, a
hint that he was shamming an attack on purpose. But, if it were on
purpose, the question arises at once, what was his motive? What was
he reckoning on? What was he aiming at? I say nothing about
medicine: science, I am told, may go astray: the doctors were not
able to discriminate between the counterfeit and the real. That may
be so, but answer me one question: what motive had he for such a
counterfeit? Could he, had he been plotting the murder, have
desired to attract the attention of the household by having a fit
just before?
