


Chapter

3
The Confession of a Passionate Heart- in Verse


ALYOSHA remained for some time irresolute after hearing the
command his father shouted to him from the carriage. But in spite
of his uneasiness he did not stand still. That was not his way. He
went at once to the kitchen to find out what his father had been
doing above. Then he set off, trusting that on the way he would
find some answer to the doubt tormenting him. I hasten to add that
his father's shouts, commanding him to return home "with his
mattress and pillow" did not frighten him in the least. He
understood perfectly that those peremptory shouts were merely "a
flourish" to produce an effect. In the same way a tradesman in our
town who was celebrating his name-day with a party of friends,
getting angry at being refused more vodka, smashed up his own
crockery and furniture and tore his own and his wife's clothes, and
finally broke his windows, all for the sake of effect. Next day, of
course, when he was sober, he regretted the broken cups and
saucers. Alyosha knew that his father would let him go back to the
monastery next day, possibly even that evening. Moreover, he was
fully persuaded that his father might hurt anyone else, but would
not hurt him. Alyosha was certain that no one in the whole world
ever would want to hurt him, and, what is more, he knew that no one
could hurt him. This was for him an axiom, assumed once for all
without question, and he went his way without hesitation, relying
on it.

But at that moment an anxiety of sort disturbed him, and worried
him the more because he could not formulate it. It was the fear of
a woman, of Katerina Ivanovna, who had so urgently entreated him in
the note handed to him by Madame Hohlakov to come and see her about
something. This request and the necessity of going had at once
aroused an uneasy feeling in his heart, and this feeling had grown
more and more painful all the morning in spite of the scenes at the
hermitage and at the Father Superior's. He was not uneasy because
he did not know what she would speak of and what he must answer.
And he was not afraid of her simply as a woman. Though he knew
little of women, he spent his life, from early childhood till he
entered the monastery, entirely with women. He was afraid of that
woman, Katerina Ivanovna. He had been afraid of her from the first
time he saw her. He had only seen her two or three times, and had
only chanced to say a few words to her. He thought of her as a
beautiful, proud, imperious girl. It was not her beauty which
troubled him, but something else. And the vagueness of his
apprehension increased the apprehension itself. The girl's aims
were of the noblest, he knew that. She was trying to save his
brother Dmitri simply through generosity, though he had already
behaved badly to her. Yet, although Alyosha recognised and did
justice to all these fine and generous sentiments, a shiver began
to run down his back as soon as he drew near her house.

He reflected that he would not find Ivan, who was so intimate a
friend, with her, for Ivan was certainly now with his father.
Dmitri he was even more certain not to find there, and he had a
foreboding of the reason. And so his conversation would be with her
alone. He had a great longing to run and see his brother Dmitri
before that fateful interview. Without showing him the letter, he
could talk to him about it. But Dmitri lived a long way off, and he
was sure to be away from home too. Standing still for a minute, he
reached a final decision. Crossing himself with a rapid and
accustomed gesture, and at once smiling, he turned resolutely in
the direction of his terrible lady.

He knew her house. If he went by the High Street and then across
the market-place, it was a long way round. Though our town is
small, it is scattered, and the houses are far apart. And meanwhile
his father was expecting him, and perhaps had not yet forgotten his
command. He might be unreasonable, and so he had to make haste to
get there and back. So he decided to take a short cut by the
backway, for he knew every inch of the ground. This meant skirting
fences, climbing over hurdles, and crossing other people's
back-yards, where everyone he met knew him and greeted him. In this
way he could reach the High Street in half the time.

He had to pass the garden adjoining his father's, and belonging
to a little tumbledown house with four windows. The owner of this
house, as Alyosha knew, was a bedridden old woman, living with her
daughter, who had been a genteel maid-servant in generals' families
in Petersburg. Now she had been at home a year, looking after her
sick mother. She always dressed up in fine clothes, though her old
mother and she had sunk into such poverty that they went every day
to Fyodor Pavlovitch's kitchen for soup and bread, which Marfa gave
readily. Yet, though the young woman came up for soup, she had
never sold any of her dresses, and one of these even had a long
train- a fact which Alyosha had learned from Rakitin, who always
knew everything that was going on in the town. He had forgotten it
as soon as he heard it, but now, on reaching the garden, he
remembered the dress with the train, raised his head, which had
been bowed in thought, and came upon something quite
unexpected.

Over the hurdle in the garden, Dmitri, mounted on something, was
leaning forward, gesticulating violently, beckoning to him,
obviously afraid to utter a word for fear of being overheard.
Alyosha ran up to the hurdle.

"It's a good thing you looked up. I was nearly shouting to you,"
Mitya said in a joyful, hurried whisper. "Climb in here quickly!
How splendid that you've come! I was just thinking of you"
