for I've
made a decision once for all. Forgive me the pun; you'll have to
forgive me a lot more than puns to-day. Don't be uneasy. I'm not
spinning it out. I'm talking sense, and I'll come to the point in a
minute. I won't keep you in suspense. Stay, how does it go?" He
raised his head, thought a minute, and began with enthusiasm:
{verse Wild and fearful in his cavern Hid the naked troglodyte, And
the homeless nomad wandered Laying waste the fertile plain.
Menacing with spear and arrow In the woods the hunter strayedâ€¦ .
Woe to all poor wretches stranded On those cruel and hostile
shores! From the peak of high Olympus Came the mother Ceres down,
Seeking in those savage regions Her lost daughter Proserpine. But
the Goddess found no refuge, Found no kindly welcome there, And no
temple bearing witness To the worship of the gods. From the fields
and from the vineyards Came no fruits to deck the feasts, Only
flesh of bloodstained victims Smouldered on the altar-fires, And
where'er the grieving goddess Turns her melancholy gaze, Sunk in
vilest degradation Man his loathsomeness displays {verse Mitya
broke into sobs and seized Alyosha's hand. "My dear, my dear, in
degradation, in degradation now, too. There's a terrible amount of
suffering for man on earth, a terrible lot of trouble. Don't think
I'm only a brute in an officer's uniform, wallowing in dirt and
drink. I hardly think of anything but of that degraded man- if only
I'm not lying. I pray God I'm not lying and showing off. I think
about that man because I am that man myself. {verse Would he purge
his soul from vileness And attain to light and worth, He must turn
and cling for ever To his ancient Mother Earth. {verse But the
difficulty is how am I to cling for ever to Mother Earth. I don't
kiss her. I don't cleave to her bosom. Am I to become a peasant or
a shepherd? I go on and I don't know whether I'm going to shame or
to light and joy. That's the trouble, for everything in the world
is a riddle! And whenever I've happened to sink into the vilest
degradation (and it's always been happening) I always read that
poem about Ceres and man. Has it reformed me? Never! For I'm a
Karamazov. For when I do leap into the pit, I go headlong with my
heels up, and am pleased to be falling in that degrading attitude,
and pride myself upon it. And in the very depths of that
degradation I begin a hymn of praise. Let me be accursed. Let me be
vile and base, only let me kiss the hem of the veil in which my God
is shrouded. Though I may be following the devil, I am Thy son, O
Lord, and I love Thee, and I feel the joy without which the world
cannot stand. {verse Joy everlasting fostereth The soul of all
creation, It is her secret ferment fires The cup of life with
flame. 'Tis at her beck the grass hath turned Each blade towards
the light And solar systems have evolved From chaos and dark night,
Filling the realms of boundless space Beyond the sage's sight. At
bounteous Nature's kindly breast, All things that breathe drink
Joy, And birds and beasts and creeping things All follow where She
leads. Her gifts to man are friends in need, The wreath, the
foaming must, To angels- vision of God's throne, To insects-
sensual lust. {verse But enough poetry! I am in tears; let me cry.
It may be foolishness that everyone would laugh at. But you won't
laugh. Your eyes are shining, too. Enough poetry. I want to tell
you now about the insects to whom God gave 'sensual lust.' To
insects- sensual lust. I am that insect, brother, and it is said of
me specially. All we Karamazovs are such insects, and, angel as you
are, that insect lives in you, too, and will stir up a tempest in
your blood. Tempests, because sensual lust is a tempest worse than
a tempest! Beauty is a terrible and awful thing! It is terrible
because it has not been fathomed and never can be fathomed, for God
sets us nothing but riddles. Here the boundaries meet and all
contradictions exist side by side. I am a cultivated man, brother,
but I've thought a lot about this. It's terrible what mysteries
there are! Too many riddles weigh men down on earth. We must solve
them as we can, and try to keep a dry skin in the water. Beauty! I
can't endure the thought that a man of lofty mind and heart begins
with the ideal of the Madonna and ends with the ideal of Sodom.
What's still more awful is that a man with the ideal of Sodom in
his soul does not renounce the ideal of the Madonna, and his heart
may be on fire with that ideal, genuinely on fire, just as in his
days of youth and innocence. Yes, man is broad, too broad, indeed.
I'd have him narrower. The devil only knows what to make of it!
What to the mind is shameful is beauty and nothing else to the
heart. Is there beauty in Sodom? Believe me, that for the immense
mass of mankind beauty is found in Sodom. Did you know that secret?
The awful thing is that beauty is mysterious as well as terrible.
God and the devil are fighting there and the battlefield is the
heart of man. But a man always talks of his own ache. Listen, now
to come to facts."




