
"I'll explain the rest now, in two words. In Moscow their
fortunes changed with the swiftness of lightning and the
unexpectedness of an Arabian fairy-tale. That general's widow,
their nearest relation, suddenly lost the two nieces who were her
heiresses and next-of-kin- both died in the same week of small-pox.
The old lady, prostrated with grief, welcomed Katya as a daughter,
as her one hope, clutched at her, altered her will in Katya's
favour. But that concerned the future. Meanwhile she gave her, for
present use, eighty thousand roubles, as a marriage portion, to do
what she liked with. She was an hysterical woman. I saw something
of her in Moscow, later.

"Well, suddenly I received by post four thousand five hundred
roubles. I was speechless with surprise, as you may suppose. Three
days later came the promised letter. I have it with me now. You
must read it. She offers to be my wife, offers herself to me. 'I
love you madly, she says, 'even if you don't love me, never mind.
Be my husband. Don't be afraid. I won't hamper you in any way. I
will be your chattel. I will be the carpet under your feet. I want
to love you for ever. I want to save you from yourself.' Alyosha, I
am not worthy to repeat those lines in my vulgar words and in my
vulgar tone, my everlastingly vulgar tone, that I can never cure
myself of. That letter stabs me even now. Do you think I don't
mind- that I don't mind still? I wrote her an answer at once, as it
was impossible for me to go to Moscow. I wrote to her with tears.
One thing I shall be ashamed of for ever. I referred to her being
rich and having a dowry while I was only a stuck-up beggar! I
mentioned money! I ought to have borne it in silence, but it
slipped from my pen. Then I wrote at once to Ivan, and told him all
I could about it in a letter of six pages, and sent him to her. Why
do you look like that? Why are you staring at me? Yes, Ivan fell in
love with her; he's in love with her still. I know that. I did a
stupid thing, in the world's opinion; but perhaps that one stupid
thing may be the saving of us all now. Oo! Don't you see what a lot
she thinks of Ivan, how she respects him? When she compares us, do
you suppose she can love a man like me, especially after all that
has happened here?"

"But I'm convinced that she does love a man like you, and not a
man like him."

"She loves her own virtue, not me." The words broke
involuntarily, and almost malignantly, from Dmitri. He laughed, but
a minute later his eyes gleamed, he flushed crimson and struck the
table violently with his fist.

"I swear, Alyosha," he cried, with intense and genuine anger at
himself; "You may not believe me, but as God is Holy, and as Christ
is God, I swear that though I smiled at her lofty sentiments just
now, I know that I am a million times baser in soul than she, and
that these lofty sentiments of hers are as sincere as a heavenly
angel's. That's the tragedy of it- that I know that for certain.
What if anyone does show off a bit? Don't I do it myself? And yet
I'm sincere, I'm sincere. As for Ivan, I can understand how he must
be cursing nature now with his intellect, too! To see the
preference given- to whom, to what? To a monster who, though he is
betrothed and all eyes are fixed on him, can't restrain his
debaucheries- and before the very eyes of his betrothed! And a man
like me is preferred, while he is rejected. And why? Because a girl
wants to sacrifice her life and destiny out of gratitude. It's
ridiculous! I've never said a word of this to Ivan, and Ivan of
course has never dropped a hint of the sort to me. But destiny will
be accomplished, and the best man will hold his ground while the
undeserving one will vanish into his back-alley for ever- his
filthy back-alley, his beloved back-alley, where he is at home and
where he will sink in filth and stench at his own free will and
with enjoyment. I've been talking foolishly. I've no words left. I
used them at random, but it will be as I have said. I shall drown
in the back-alley, and she will marry Ivan."

"Stop, Dmitri," Alyosha interrupted again with great anxiety.
"There's one thing you haven't made clear yet: you are still
betrothed all the same, aren't you? How can you break off the
engagement if she, your betrothed, doesn't want to?"

"Yes, formally and solemnly betrothed. It was all done on my
arrival in Moscow, with great ceremony, with ikons, all in fine
style. The general's wife blessed us, and- would you believe it?-
congratulated Katya. You've made a good choice,' she said, 'I see
right through him.' And- would you believe it?- she didn't like
Ivan, and hardly greeted him. I had a lot of talk with Katya in
Moscow. I told her about myself- sincerely, honourably. She
listened to everything.

There was sweet confusion,

There were tender words. Though there were proud words, too. She
wrung out of me a mighty promise to reform. I gave my promise, and
here- "

"What?"

