


Chapter

16
THE RETURN HOME


By three bells that morning they were all stirring their stumps
[legs]; for there was a big sea running; and Tootles, the bo'sun,
was among them, with a rope's end in his hand and chewing tobacco.
They all donned pirate clothes cut off at the knee, shaved smartly,
and tumbled up, with the true nautical roll and hitching their
trousers.

It need not be said who was the captain. Nibs and John were
first and second mate. There was a woman aboard. The rest were tars
[sailors] before the mast, and lived in the fo'c'sle. Peter had
already lashed himself to the wheel; but he piped all hands and
delivered a short address to them; said he hoped they would do
their duty like gallant hearties, but that he knew they were the
scum of Rio and the Gold Coast, and if they snapped at him he would
tear them. The bluff strident words struck the note sailors
understood, and they cheered him lustily. Then a few sharp orders
were given, and they turned the ship round, and nosed her for the
mainland.

Captain Pan calculated, after consulting the ship's chart, that
if this weather lasted they should strike the Azores about the 21st
of June, after which it would save time to fly.

Some of them wanted it to be an honest ship and others were in
favour of keeping it a pirate; but the captain treated them as
dogs, and they dared not express their wishes to him even in a
round robin [one person after another, as they had to Cpt. Hook].
Instant obedience was the only safe thing. Slightly got a dozen for
looking perplexed when told to take soundings. The general feeling
was that Peter was honest just now to lull Wendy's suspicions, but
that there might be a change when the new suit was ready, which,
against her will, she was making for him out of some of Hook's
wickedest garments. It was afterwards whispered among them that on
the first night he wore this suit he sat long in the cabin with
Hook's cigar-holder in his mouth and one hand clenched, all but for
the forefinger, which he bent and held threateningly aloft like a
hook.

Instead of watching the ship, however, we must now return to
that desolate home from which three of our characters had taken
heartless flight so long ago. It seems a shame to have neglected
No. 14 all this time; and yet we may be sure that Mrs. Darling does
not blame us. If we had returned sooner to look with sorrowful
sympathy at her, she would probably have cried, "Don't be silly;
what do I matter? Do go back and keep an eye on the children." So
long as mothers are like this their children will take advantage of
them; and they may lay to [bet on] that.

Even now we venture into that familiar nursery only because its
lawful occupants are on their way home; we are merely hurrying on
in advance of them to see that their beds are properly aired and
that Mr. and Mrs. Darling do not go out for the evening. We are no
more than servants. Why on earth should their beds be properly
aired, seeing that they left them in such a thankless hurry? Would
it not serve them jolly well right if they came back and found that
their parents were spending the week-end in the country? It would
be the moral lesson they have been in need of ever since we met
them; but if we contrived things in this way Mrs. Darling would
never forgive us.

One thing I should like to do immensely, and that is to tell
her, in the way authors have, that the children are coming back,
that indeed they will be here on Thursday week. This would spoil so
completely the surprise to which Wendy and John and Michael are
looking forward. They have been planning it out on the ship:
mother's rapture, father's shout of joy, Nana's leap through the
air to embrace them first, when what they ought to be prepared for
is a good hiding. How delicious to spoil it all by breaking the
news in advance; so that when they enter grandly Mrs. Darling may
not even offer Wendy her mouth, and Mr. Darling may exclaim
pettishly, "Dash it all, here are those boys again." However, we
should get no thanks even for this. We are beginning to know Mrs.
Darling by this time, and may be sure that she would upbraid us for
depriving the children of their little pleasure.
